CHAPTER I


One morning, in the fall of 1880, a middle-aged woman, accompanied
by a young girl of eighteen, presented herself at the clerk's desk of
the principal hotel in Columbus, Ohio, and made inquiry as to whether
there was anything about the place that she could do. She was of a
helpless, fleshy build, with a frank, open countenance and an
innocent, diffident manner. Her eyes were large and patient, and in
them dwelt such a shadow of distress as only those who have looked
sympathetically into the countenances of the distraught and helpless
poor know anything about. Any one could see where the daughter behind
her got the timidity and shamefacedness which now caused her to stand
back and look indifferently away. She was a product of the fancy, the
feeling, the innate affection of the untutored but poetic mind of her
mother combined with the gravity and poise which were characteristic
of her father. Poverty was driving them. Together they presented so
appealing a picture of honest necessity that even the clerk was
affected.

"What is it you would like to do?" he said.

"Maybe you have some cleaning or scrubbing," she replied, timidly.
"I could wash the floors."

The daughter, hearing the statement, turned uneasily, not because
it irritated her to work, but because she hated people to guess at the
poverty that made it necessary. The clerk, manlike, was affected by
the evidence of beauty in distress. The innocent helplessness of the
daughter made their lot seem hard indeed.

"Wait a moment," he said; and, stepping into a back office, he
called the head housekeeper.

There was work to be done. The main staircase and parlor hall were
unswept because of the absence of the regular scrub-woman.

"Is that her daughter with her?" asked the housekeeper, who could
see them from where she was standing.

"Yes, I believe so."

"She might come this afternoon if she wants to. The girl helps her,
I suppose?"

"You go see the housekeeper," said the clerk, pleasantly, as he
came back to the desk. "Right through there"--pointing to a
near-by door. "She'll arrange with you about it."

A succession of misfortunes, of which this little scene might have
been called the tragic culmination, had taken place in the life and
family of William Gerhardt, a glass-blower by trade. Having suffered
the reverses so common in the lower walks of life, this man was forced
to see his wife, his six children, and himself dependent for the
necessaries of life upon whatever windfall of fortune the morning of
each recurring day might bring. He himself was sick in bed. His oldest
boy, Sebastian, or "Bass," as his associates transformed it, worked as
an apprentice to a local freight-car builder, but received only four
dollars a week. Genevieve, the oldest of the girls, was past eighteen,
but had not as yet been trained to any special work. The other
children, George, aged fourteen; Martha, twelve; William ten, and
Veronica, eight, were too young to do anything, and only made the
problem of existence the more complicated. Their one mainstay was the
home, which, barring a six-hundred-dollar mortgage, the father owned.
He had borrowed this money at a time when, having saved enough to buy
the house, he desired to add three rooms and a porch, and so make it
large enough for them to live in. A few years were still to run on the
mortgage, but times had been so bad that he had been forced to use up
not only the little he had saved to pay off the principal, but the
annual interest also. Gerhardt was helpless, and the consciousness of
his precarious situation--the doctor's bill, the interest due
upon the mortgage, together with the sums owed butcher and baker, who,
through knowing him to be absolutely honest, had trusted him until
they could trust no longer--all these perplexities weighed upon
his mind and racked him so nervously as to delay his recovery.

Mrs. Gerhardt was no weakling. For a time she took in washing, what
little she could get, devoting the intermediate hours to dressing the
children, cooking, seeing that they got off to school, mending their
clothes, waiting on her husband, and occasionally weeping. Not
infrequently she went personally to some new grocer, each time farther
and farther away, and, starting an account with a little cash, would
receive credit until other grocers warned the philanthropist of his
folly. Corn was cheap. Sometimes she would make a kettle of lye
hominy, and this would last, with scarcely anything else, for an
entire week. Corn-meal also, when made into mush, was better than
nothing, and this, with a little milk, made almost a feast. Potatoes
fried was the nearest they ever came to luxurious food, and coffee was
an infrequent treat. Coal was got by picking it up in buckets and
baskets along the maze of tracks in the near-by railroad yard. Wood,
by similar journeys to surrounding lumber-yards. Thus they lived from
day to day, each hour hoping that the father would get well and that
the glass-works would soon start up. But as the winter approached
Gerhardt began to feel desperate.

"I must get out of this now pretty soon," was the sturdy German's
regular comment, and his anxiety found but weak expression in the
modest quality of his voice.

To add to all this trouble little Veronica took the measles, and,
for a few days, it was thought that she would die. The mother
neglected everything else to hover over her and pray for the best.
Doctor Ellwanger came every day, out of purely human sympathy, and
gravely examined the child. The Lutheran minister, Pastor Wundt,
called to offer the consolation of the Church. Both of these men
brought an atmosphere of grim ecclesiasticism into the house. They
were the black-garbed, sanctimonious emissaries of superior forces.
Mrs. Gerhardt felt as if she were going to lose her child, and watched
sorrowfully by the cot-side. After three days the worst was over, but
there was no bread in the house. Sebastian's wages had been spent for
medicine. Only coal was free for the picking, and several times the
children had been scared from the railroad yards. Mrs. Gerhardt
thought of all the places to which she might apply, and despairingly
hit upon the hotel. Now, by a miracle, she had her chance.

"How much do you charge?" the housekeeper asked her.

Mrs. Gerhardt had not thought this would be left to her, but need
emboldened her.

"Would a dollar a day be too much?"

"No," said the housekeeper; "there is only about three days' work
to do every week. If you would come every afternoon you could do
it."

"Very well," said the applicant. "Shall we start to-day?"

"Yes; if you'll come with me now I'll show you where the cleaning
things are."

The hotel, into which they were thus summarily introduced, was a
rather remarkable specimen for the time and place. Columbus, being the
State capital, and having a population of fifty thousand and a fair
passenger traffic, was a good field for the hotel business, and the
opportunity had been improved; so at least the Columbus people proudly
thought. The structure, five stories in height, and of imposing
proportions, stood at one corner of the central public square, where
were the Capitol building and principal stores. The lobby was large
and had been recently redecorated. Both floor and wainscot were of
white marble, kept shiny by frequent polishing. There was an imposing
staircase with hand-rails of walnut and toe-strips of brass. An
inviting corner was devoted to a news and cigar-stand. Where the
staircase curved upward the clerk's desk and offices had been located,
all done in hardwood and ornamented by novel gas-fixtures. One could
see through a door at one end of the lobby to the barbershop, with its
chairs and array of shaving-mugs. Outside were usually two or three
buses, arriving or departing, in accordance with the movement of the
trains.

To this caravanserai came the best of the political and social
patronage of the State. Several Governors had made it their permanent
abiding place during their terms of office. The two United States
Senators, whenever business called them to Columbus, invariably
maintained parlor chambers at the hotel. One of them, Senator Brander,
was looked upon by the proprietor as more or less of a permanent
guest, because he was not only a resident of the city, but an
otherwise homeless bachelor. Other and more transient guests included
Congressmen, State legislators and lobbyists, merchants, professional
men, and, after them, the whole raft of indescribables who, coming and
going, make up the glow and stir of this kaleidoscopic world.

Mother and daughter, suddenly flung into this realm of superior
brightness, felt immeasurably overawed. They went about too timid to
touch anything for fear of giving offense. The great red-carpeted
hallway, which they were set to sweep, had for them all the
magnificence of a palace; they kept their eyes down and spoke in their
lowest tones. When it came to scrubbing the steps and polishing the
brass-work of the splendid stairs both needed to steel themselves, the
mother against her timidity, the daughter against the shame at so
public an exposure. Wide beneath lay the imposing lobby, and men,
lounging, smoking, passing constantly in and out, could see them
both.

"Isn't it fine?" whispered Genevieve, and started nervously at the
sound of her own voice.

"Yes," returned her mother, who, upon her knees, was wringing out
her cloth with earnest but clumsy hands.

"It must cost a good deal to live here, don't you think?"

"Yes," said her mother. "Don't forget to rub into these little
corners. Look here what you've left."

Jennie, mortified by this correction, fell earnestly to her task,
and polished vigorously, without again daring to lift her eyes.

With painstaking diligence they worked downward until about five
o'clock; it was dark outside, and all the lobby was brightly lighted.
Now they were very near the bottom of the stairway.

Through the big swinging doors there entered from the chilly world
without a tall, distinguished, middle-aged gentleman, whose silk hat
and loose military cape-coat marked him at once, among the crowd of
general idlers, as some one of importance. His face was of a dark and
solemn cast, but broad and sympathetic in its lines, and his bright
eyes were heavily shaded with thick, bushy, black eyebrows. Passing to
the desk he picked up the key that had already been laid out for him,
and coming to the staircase, started up.

The middle-aged woman, scrubbing at his feet, he acknowledged not
only by walking around her, but by graciously waving his hand, as much
as to say, "Don't move for me."

The daughter, however, caught his eye by standing up, her troubled
glance showing that she feared she was in his way.

He bowed and smiled pleasantly.

"You shouldn't have troubled yourself," he said.

Jennie only smiled.

When he had reached the upper landing an impulsive sidewise glance
assured him, more clearly than before, of her uncommonly prepossessing
appearance. He noted the high, white forehead, with its smoothly
parted and plaited hair. The eyes he saw were blue and the complexion
fair. He had even time to admire the mouth and the full
cheeks--above all, the well-rounded, graceful form, full of
youth, health, and that hopeful expectancy which to the middle-aged is
so suggestive of all that is worth begging of Providence. Without
another look he went dignifiedly upon his way, but the impression of
her charming personality went with him. This was the Hon. George
Sylvester Brander, junior Senator.

"Wasn't that a fine-looking man who went up just now?" observed
Jennie a few moments later.

"Yes, he was," said her mother.

"He had a gold-headed cane."

"You mustn't stare at people when they pass," cautioned her mother,
wisely. "It isn't nice."

"I didn't stare at him," returned Jennie, innocently. "He bowed to
me."

"Well, don't you pay any attention to anybody," said her mother.
"They may not like it."

Jennie fell to her task in silence, but the glamor of the great
world was having its effect upon her senses. She could not help giving
ear to the sounds, the brightness, the buzz of conversation and
laughter surrounding her. In one section of the parlor floor was the
dining-room, and from the clink of dishes one could tell that supper
was being prepared. In another was the parlor proper, and there some
one came to play on the piano. That feeling of rest and relaxation
which comes before the evening meal pervaded the place. It touched the
heart of the innocent working-girl with hope, for hers were the years,
and poverty could not as yet fill her young mind with cares. She
rubbed diligently always, and sometimes forgot the troubled mother at
her side, whose kindly eyes were becoming invested with crows' feet,
and whose lips half repeated the hundred cares of the day. She could
only think that all of this was very fascinating, and wish that a
portion of it might come to her.

At half-past five the housekeeper, remembering them, came and told
them that they might go. The fully finished stairway was relinquished
by both with a sigh of relief, and, after putting their implements
away, they hastened homeward, the mother, at least, pleased to think
that at last she had something to do.

As they passed several fine houses Jennie was again touched by that
half-defined emotion which the unwonted novelty of the hotel life had
engendered in her consciousness.

"Isn't it fine to be rich?" she said.

"Yes," answered her mother, who was thinking of the suffering
Veronica.

"Did you see what a big dining-room they had there?"

"Yes."

They went on past the low cottages and among the dead leaves of the
year.

"I wish we were rich," murmured Jennie, half to herself.

"I don't know just what to do," confided her mother with a
long-drawn sigh. "I don't believe there's a thing to eat in the
house."

"Let's stop and see Mr. Bauman again," exclaimed Jennie, her
natural sympathies restored by the hopeless note in her mother's
voice.

"Do you think he would trust us any more?"

"Let's tell him where we're working. I will."

"Well," said her mother, wearily.

Into the small, dimly lighted grocery store, which was two blocks
from their house, they ventured nervously. Mrs. Gerhardt was about to
begin, but Jennie spoke first.

"Will you let us have some bread to-night, and a little bacon?
We're working now at the Columbus House, and we'll be sure to pay you
Saturday."

"Yes," added Mrs. Gerhardt, "I have something to do."

Bauman, who had long supplied them before illness and trouble
began, knew that they told the truth.

"How long have you been working there?" he asked.

"Just this afternoon."

"You know, Mrs. Gerhardt," he said, "how it is with me. I don't
want to refuse you. Mr. Gerhardt is good for it, but I am poor, too.
Times are hard," he explained further, "I have my family to keep."

"Yes, I know," said Mrs. Gerhardt, weakly.

Her old shoddy shawl hid her rough hands, red from the day's work,
but they were working nervously. Jennie stood by in strained
silence.

"Well," concluded Mr. Bauman, "I guess it's all right this time. Do
what you can for me Saturday."

He wrapped up the bread and bacon, and, handing Jennie the parcel,
he added, with a touch of cynicism:

"When you get money again I guess you'll go and trade somewhere
else."

"No," returned Mrs. Gerhardt; "you know better than that." But she
was too nervous to parley long.

They went out into the shadowy street, and on past the low cottages
to their own home.

"I wonder," said the mother, wearily, when they neared the door,
"if they've got any coal?"

"Don't worry," said Jennie. "If they haven't I'll go."

"A man run us away," was almost the first greeting that the
perturbed George offered when the mother made her inquiry about the
coal. "I got a little, though." he added. "I threw it off a car."

Mrs. Gerhardt only smiled, but Jennie laughed.

"How is Veronica?" she inquired.

"She seems to be sleeping," said the father. "I gave her medicine
again at five."

While the scanty meal was being prepared the mother went to the
sick child's bedside, taking up another long night's vigil quite as a
matter of course.

While the supper was being eaten Sebastian offered a suggestion,
and his larger experience in social and commercial matters made his
proposition worth considering. Though only a car-builder's apprentice,
without any education except such as pertained to Lutheran doctrine,
to which he objected very strongly, he was imbued with American color
and energy. His transformed name of Bass suited him exactly. Tall,
athletic, and well-featured for his age, he was a typical stripling of
the town. Already he had formulated a philosophy of life. To succeed
one must do something--one must associate, or at least seem to
associate, with those who were foremost in the world of
appearances.

For this reason the young boy loved to hang about the Columbus
House. It seemed to him that this hotel was the center and
circumference of all that was worth while in the social sense. He
would go down-town evenings, when he first secured money enough to buy
a decent suit of clothes, and stand around the hotel entrance with his
friends, kicking his heels, smoking a two-for-five-cent cigar,
preening himself on his stylish appearance, and looking after the
girls. Others were there with him--town dandies and nobodies,
young men who came there to get shaved or to drink a glass of whisky.
And all of these he admired and sought to emulate. Clothes were the
main touchstone. If men wore nice clothes and had rings and pins,
whatever they did seemed appropriate. He wanted to be like them and to
act like them, and so his experience of the more pointless forms of
life rapidly broadened.

"Why don't you get some of those hotel fellows to give you their
laundry?" he asked of Jennie after she had related the afternoon's
experiences. "It would be better than scrubbing the stairs."

"How do you get it?" she replied.

"Why, ask the clerk, of course."

This plan struck Jennie as very much worth while.

"Don't you ever speak to me if you meet me around there," he
cautioned her a little later, privately. "Don't you let on that you
know me."

"Why?" she asked, innocently.

"Well, you know why," he answered, having indicated before that
when they looked so poor he did not want to be disgraced by having to
own them as relatives. "Just you go on by. Do you hear?"

"All right," she returned, meekly, for although this youth was not
much over a year her senior, his superior will dominated.

The next day on their way to the hotel she spoke of it to her
mother.

"Bass said we might get some of the laundry of the men at the hotel
to do."

Mrs. Gerhardt, whose mind had been straining all night at the
problem of adding something to the three dollars which her six
afternoons would bring her, approved of the idea.

"So we might," she said. "I'll ask that clerk."

When they reached the hotel, however, no immediate opportunity
presented itself. They worked on until late in the afternoon. Then, as
fortune would have it, the housekeeper sent them in to scrub up the
floor behind the clerk's desk. That important individual felt very
kindly toward mother and daughter. He liked the former's sweetly
troubled countenance and the latter's pretty face. So he listened
graciously when Mrs. Gerhardt ventured meekly to put the question
which she had been revolving in her mind all the afternoon.

"Is there any gentleman here," she said, "who would give me his
washing to do? I'd be so very much obliged for it."

The clerk looked at her, and again recognized that absolute want
was written all over her anxious face.

"Let's see," he answered, thinking of Senator Brander and Marshall
Hopkins. Both were charitable men, who would be more than glad to aid
a poor woman. "You go up and see Senator Brander," he continued. "He's
in twenty-two. Here," he added, writing out the number, "you go up and
tell him I sent you."

Mrs. Gerhardt took the card with a tremor of gratefulness. Her eyes
looked the words she could not say.

"That's all right," said the clerk, observing her emotion. "You go
right up. You'll find him in his room now."

With the greatest diffidence Mrs. Gerhardt knocked at number
twenty-two. Jennie stood silently at her side.

After a moment the door was opened, and in the full radiance of the
bright room stood the Senator. Attired in a handsome smoking-coat, he
looked younger than at their first meeting.

"Well, madam," he said, recognizing the couple, and particularly
the daughter, "what can I do for you?"

Very much abashed, the mother hesitated in her reply.

"We would like to know if you have any washing you could let us
have to do?"

"Washing?" he repeated after her, in a voice which had a peculiarly
resonant quality. "Washing? Come right in. Let me see."

He stepped aside with much grace, waved them in and closed the
door. "Let me see," he repeated, opening and closing drawer after
drawer of the massive black-walnut bureau. Jennie studied the room
with interest. Such an array of nicknacks and pretty things on mantel
and dressing-case she had never seen before. The Senator's easy-chair,
with a green-shaded lamp beside it, the rich heavy carpet and the fine
rugs upon the floor--what comfort, what luxury!

"Sit down; take those two chairs there," said the Senator,
graciously, disappearing into a closet.

Still overawed, mother and daughter thought it more polite to
decline, but now the Senator had completed his researches and he
reiterated his invitation. Very uncomfortably they yielded and took
chairs.

"Is this your daughter?" he continued, with a smile at Jennie.

"Yes, sir," said the mother; "she's my oldest girl."

"Is your husband alive?"

"What is his name?"

"Where does he live?"

To all of these questions Mrs. Gerhardt very humbly answered.

"How many children have you?" he went on.

"Six," said Mrs. Gerhardt.

"Well," he returned, "that's quite a family. You've certainly done
your duty to the nation."

"Yes, sir," returned Mrs. Gerhardt, who was touched by his genial
and interesting manner.

"And you say this is your oldest daughter?"

"Yes, sir."

"What does your husband do?"

"He's a glass-blower. But he's sick now."

During the colloquy Jennie's large blue eyes were wide with
interest. Whenever he looked at her she turned upon him such a frank,
unsophisticated gaze, and smiled in such a vague, sweet way, that he
could not keep his eyes off of her for more than a minute of the
time.

"Well," he continued, sympathetically, "that is too bad! I have
some washing here not very much but you are welcome to it. Next week
there may be more."

He went about now, stuffing articles of apparel into a blue cotton
bag with a pretty design on the side.

"Do you want these any certain day?" questioned Mrs. Gerhardt.

"No," he said, reflectively; "any day next week will do."

She thanked him with a simple phrase, and started to go.

"Let me see," he said, stepping ahead of them and opening the door,
"you may bring them back Monday."

"Yes, sir," said Mrs. Gerhardt. "Thank you."

They went out and the Senator returned to his reading, but it was
with a peculiarly disturbed mind.

"Too bad," he said, closing his volume. "There's something very
pathetic about those people." Jennie's spirit of wonder and
appreciation was abroad in the room.

Mrs. Gerhardt and Jennie made their way anew through the shadowy
streets. They felt immeasurably encouraged by this fortunate
venture.

"Didn't he have a fine room?" whispered Jennie.

"Yes," answered the mother; "he's a great man."

"He's a senator, isn't he?" continued the daughter.

"Yes."

"It must be nice to be famous," said the girl, softly.




CHAPTER II


The spirit of Jennie--who shall express it? This daughter of
poverty, who was now to fetch and carry the laundry of this
distinguished citizen of Columbus, was a creature of a mellowness of
temperament which words can but vaguely suggest. There are natures
born to the inheritance of flesh that come without understanding, and
that go again without seeming to have wondered why. Life, so long as
they endure it, is a true wonderland, a thing of infinite beauty,
which could they but wander into it wonderingly, would be heaven
enough. Opening their eyes, they see a conformable and perfect world.
Trees, flowers, the world of sound and the world of color. These are
the valued inheritance of their state. If no one said to them "Mine,"
they would wander radiantly forth, singing the song which all the
earth may some day hope to hear. It is the song of goodness.

Caged in the world of the material, however, such a nature is
almost invariably an anomaly. That other world of flesh into which has
been woven pride and greed looks askance at the idealist, the dreamer.
If one says it is sweet to look at the clouds, the answer is a warning
against idleness. If one seeks to give ear to the winds, it shall be
well with his soul, but they will seize upon his possessions. If all
the world of the so-called inanimate delay one, calling with
tenderness in sounds that seem to be too perfect to be less than
understanding, it shall be ill with the body. The hands of the actual
are forever reaching toward such as these--forever seizing
greedily upon them. It is of such that the bond servants are made.

In the world of the actual, Jennie was such a spirit. From her
earliest youth goodness and mercy had molded her every impulse. Did
Sebastian fall and injure himself, it was she who struggled with
straining anxiety, carried him safely to his mother. Did George
complain that he was hungry, she gave him all of her bread. Many were
the hours in which she had rocked her younger brothers and sisters to
sleep, singing whole-heartedly betimes and dreaming far dreams. Since
her earliest walking period she had been as the right hand of her
mother. What scrubbing, baking, errand-running, and nursing there had
been to do she did. No one had ever heard her rudely complain, though
she often thought of the hardness of her lot. She knew that there were
other girls whose lives were infinitely freer and fuller, but, it
never occurred to her to be meanly envious; her heart might be lonely,
but her lips continued to sing. When the days were fair she looked out
of her kitchen window and longed to go where the meadows were.
Nature's fine curves and shadows touched her as a song itself. There
were times when she had gone with George and the others, leading them
away to where a patch of hickory-trees flourished, because there were
open fields, with shade for comfort and a brook of living water. No
artist in the formulating of conceptions, her soul still responded to
these things, and every sound and every sigh were welcome to her
because of their beauty.

When the soft, low call or the wood-doves, those spirits of the
summer, came out of the distance, she would incline her head and
listen, the whole spiritual quality of it dropping like silver bubbles
into her own great heart.

Where the sunlight was warm and the shadows flecked with its
splendid radiance she delighted to wonder at the pattern of it, to
walk where it was most golden, and follow with instinctive
appreciation the holy corridors of the trees.

Color was not lost upon her. That wonderful radiance which fills
the western sky at evening touched and unburdened her heart.

"I wonder," she said once with girlish simplicity, "how it would
feel to float away off there among those clouds."

She had discovered a natural swing of a wild grape-vine, and was
sitting in it with Martha and George.

"Oh, wouldn't it be nice if you had a boat up there," said
George.

She was looking with uplifted face at a far-off cloud, a red island
in a sea of silver.

"Just supposing," she said, "people could live on an island like
that."

Her soul was already up there, and its elysian paths knew the
lightness of her feet.

"There goes a bee," said George, noting a bumbler winging by.

"Yes," she said, dreamily, "it's going home."

"Does everything have a home?" asked Martha.

"Nearly everything," she answered.

"Do the birds go home?" questioned George.

"Yes," she said, deeply feeling the poetry of it herself, "the
birds go home."

"Do the bees go home?" urged Martha.

"Yes, the bees go home."

"Do the dogs go home?" said George, who saw one traveling
lonesomely along the nearby road.

"Why, of course," she said, "you know that dogs go home."

"Do the gnats?" he persisted, seeing one of those curious spirals
of minute insects turning energetically in the waning light.

"Yes," she said, half believing her remark. "Listen!"

"Oho," exclaimed George, incredulously, "I wonder what kind of
houses they live in."

"Listen!" she gently persisted, putting out her hand to still
him.

It was that halcyon hour when the Angelus falls like a benediction
upon the waning day. Far off the notes were sounding gently, and
nature, now that she listened, seemed to have paused also. A
scarlet-breasted robin was hopping in short spaces upon the grass
before her. A humming bee hummed, a cow-bell tinkled, while some
suspicious cracklings told of a secretly reconnoitering squirrel.
Keeping her pretty hand weighed in the air, she listened until the
long, soft notes spread and faded and her heart could hold no more.
Then she arose.

"Oh," she said, clenching her fingers in an agony of poetic
feeling. There were crystal tears overflowing in her eyes. The
wondrous sea of feeling in her had stormed its banks. Of such was the
spirit of Jennie.




CHAPTER III


The junior Senator, George Sylvester Brander, was a man of peculiar
mold. In him there were joined, to a remarkable degree, the wisdom of
the opportunist and the sympathetic nature of the true representative
of the people. Born a native of southern Ohio, he had been raised and
educated there, if one might except the two years in which he had
studied law at Columbia University. He knew common and criminal law,
perhaps, as well as any citizen of his State, but he had never
practised with that assiduity which makes for pre-eminent success at
the bar. He had made money, and had had splendid opportunities to make
a great deal more if he had been willing to stultify his conscience,
but that he had never been able to do. And yet his integrity had not
been at all times proof against the claims of friendship. Only in the
last presidential election he had thrown his support to a man for
Governor who, he well knew, had no claim which a strictly honorable
conscience could have recognized.

In the same way, he had been guilty of some very questionable, and
one or two actually unsavory, appointments. Whenever his conscience
pricked him too keenly he would endeavor to hearten himself with his
pet phrase, "All in a lifetime." Thinking over things quite alone in
his easy-chair, he would sometimes rise up with these words on his
lips, and smile sheepishly as he did so. Conscience was not by any
means dead in him. His sympathies, if anything, were keener than
ever.

This man, three times Congressman from the district of which
Columbus was a part, and twice United States Senator, had never
married. In his youth he had had a serious love affair, but there was
nothing discreditable to him in the fact that it came to nothing. The
lady found it inconvenient to wait for him. He was too long in earning
a competence upon which they might subsist.

Tall, straight-shouldered, neither lean nor stout, he was to-day an
imposing figure. Having received his hard knocks and endured his
losses, there was that about him which touched and awakened the
sympathies of the imaginative. People thought him naturally agreeable,
and his senatorial peers looked upon him as not any too heavy
mentally, but personally a fine man.

His presence in Columbus at this particular time was due to the
fact that his political fences needed careful repairing. The general
election had weakened his party in the State Legislature. There were
enough votes to re-elect him, but it would require the most careful
political manipulation to hold them together. Other men were
ambitious. There were a half-dozen available candidates, any one of
whom would have rejoiced to step into his shoes. He realized the
exigencies of the occasion. They could not well beat him, he thought;
but even if this should happen, surely the President could be induced
to give him a ministry abroad.

Yes, he might be called a successful man, but for all that Senator
Brander felt that he had missed something. He had wanted to do so many
things. Here he was, fifty-two years of age, clean, honorable, highly
distinguished, as the world takes it, but single. He could not help
looking about him now and then and speculating upon the fact that he
had no one to care for him. His chamber seemed strangely hollow at
times--his own personality exceedingly disagreeable.

"Fifty!" he often thought to himself. "Alone--absolutely
alone."

Sitting in his chamber that Saturday afternoon, a rap at his door
aroused him. He had been speculating upon the futility of his
political energy in the light of the impermanence of life and
fame.

"What a great fight we make to sustain ourselves!" he thought. "How
little difference it will make to me a few years hence!"

He arose, and opening wide his door, perceived Jennie. She had
come, as she had suggested to her mother, at this time, instead of on
Monday, in order to give a more favorable impression of
promptness.

"Come right in," said the Senator; and, as on the first occasion,
he graciously made way for her.

Jennie passed in, momentarily expecting some compliment upon the
promptitude with which the washing had been done. The Senator never
noticed it at all.

"Well, my young lady," he said when she had put the bundle down,
"how do you find yourself this evening?"

"Very well," replied Jennie. "We thought we'd better bring your
clothes to-day instead of Monday."

"Oh, that would not have made any difference," replied Brander
lightly. "Just leave them on the chair."

Jennie, without considering the fact that she had been offered no
payment for the service rendered, was about to retire, had not the
Senator detained her.

"How is your mother?" he asked pleasantly.

"She's very well," said Jennie simply.

"And your little sister? Is she any better?"

"The doctor thinks so," she replied.

"Sit down," he continued graciously. "I want to talk to you."

Moving to a near-by chair, the young girl seated herself.

"Hem!" he went on, clearing his throat lightly, "What seems to be
the matter with her?"

"She has the measles," returned Jennie. "We thought once that she
was going to die."

Brander studied her face as she said this, and he thought he saw
something exceedingly pathetic there. The girl's poor clothes and her
wondering admiration for his exalted station in life affected him. It
made him feel almost ashamed of the comfort and luxury that surrounded
him. How high up he was in the world, indeed!

"I am glad she is better now," he said kindly. "How old is your
father?"

"Fifty-seven."

"And is he any better?"

"Oh yes, sir; he's around now, although he can't go out just
yet."

"I believe your mother said he was a glass-blower by trade?"

"Yes, sir."

Brander well knew the depressed local conditions in this branch of
manufacture. It had been part of the political issue in the last
campaign. They must be in a bad way truly.

"Do all of the children go to school?" he inquired.

"Why yes, sir," returned Jennie, stammering. She was too shamefaced
to own that one of the children had been obliged to leave school for
the lack of shoes. The utterance of the falsehood troubled her.

He reflected awhile; then realizing that he had no good excuse for
further detaining her, he arose and came over to her. From his pocket
he took a thin layer of bills, and removing one, handed it to her.

"You take that," he said, "and tell your mother that I said she
should use it for whatever she wants."

Jennie accepted the money with mingled feelings; it did not occur
to her to look and see how much it was. The great man was so near her,
the wonderful chamber in which he dwelt so impressive, that she
scarcely realized what she was doing.

"Thank you," she said. "Is there any day you want your washing
called for?" she added.

"Oh yes," he answered; "Monday--Monday evenings."

She went away, and in a half reverie he closed the door behind her.
The interest that he felt in these people was unusual. Poverty and
beauty certainly made up an affecting combination. He sat down in his
chair and gave himself over to the pleasant speculations which her
coming had aroused. Why should he not help them?

"I'll find out where they live," he finally resolved.

In the days that followed Jennie regularly came for the clothes.
Senator Brander found himself more and more interested in her, and in
time he managed to remove from her mind that timidity and fear which
had made her feel uncomfortable in his presence. One thing which
helped toward this was his calling her by her first name. This began
with her third visit, and thereafter he used it with almost
unconscious frequency.

It could scarcely be said that he did this in a fatherly spirit,
for he had little of that attitude toward any one. He felt exceedingly
young as he talked to this girl, and he often wondered whether it were
not possible for her to perceive and appreciate him on his youthful
side.

As for Jennie, she was immensely taken with the comfort and luxury
surrounding this man, and subconsciously with the man himself, the
most attractive she had ever known. Everything he had was fine,
everything he did was gentle, distinguished, and considerate. From
some far source, perhaps some old German ancestors, she had inherited
an understanding and appreciation of all this. Life ought to be lived
as he lived it; the privilege of being generous particularly appealed
to her.

Part of her attitude was due to that of her mother, in whose mind
sympathy was always a more potent factor than reason. For instance,
when she brought to her the ten dollars Mrs. Gerhardt was transported
with joy.

"Oh," said Jennie, "I didn't know until I got outside that it was
so much. He said I should give it to you."

Mrs. Gerhardt took it, and holding it loosely in her folded hands,
saw distinctly before her the tall Senator with his fine manners.

"What a fine man he is!" she said. "He has a good heart."

Frequently throughout the evening and the next day Mrs. Gerhardt
commented upon this wonderful treasure-trove, repeating again and
again how good he must be or how large must be his heart. When it came
to washing his clothes she almost rubbed them to pieces, feeling that
whatever she did she could scarcely do enough. Gerhardt was not to
know. He had such stern views about accepting money without earning it
that even in their distress, she would have experienced some
difficulty in getting him to take it. Consequently she said nothing,
but used it to buy bread and meat, and going as it did such a little
way, the sudden windfall was never noticed.

Jennie, from now on, reflected this attitude toward the Senator,
and, feeling so grateful toward him, she began to talk more freely.
They came to be on such good terms that he gave her a little leather
picture-case from his dresser which he had observed her admiring.
Every time she came he found excuse to detain her, and soon discovered
that, for all her soft girlishness, there lay deep-seated in her a
conscious deprecation of poverty and a shame of having to own any
need. He honestly admired her for this, and, seeing that her clothes
were poor and her shoes worn, he began to wonder how he could help her
without offending.

Not infrequently he thought to follow her some evening, and see for
himself what the condition of the family might be. He was a United
States Senator, however. The neighborhood they lived in must be very
poor. He stopped to consider, and for the time the counsels of
prudence prevailed. Consequently the contemplated visit was put
off.

Early in December Senator Brander returned to Washington for three
weeks, and both Mrs. Gerhardt and Jennie were surprised to learn one
day that he had gone. Never had he given them less than two dollars a
week for his washing, and several times it had been five. He had not
realized, perhaps, what a breach his absence would make in their
finances. But there was nothing to do about it; they managed to pinch
along. Gerhardt, now better, searched for work at the various mills,
and finding nothing, procured a saw-buck and saw, and going from door
to door, sought for the privilege of sawing wood. There was not a
great deal of this to do, but he managed, by the most earnest labor to
earn two, and sometimes three, dollars a week. This added to what his
wife earned and what Sebastian gave was enough to keep bread in their
mouths, but scarcely more.

It was at the opening of the joyous Christmas-time that the
bitterness of their poverty affected them most. The Germans love to
make a great display at Christmas. It is the one season of the year
when the fullness of their large family affection manifests itself.
Warm in the appreciation of the joys of childhood, they love to see
the little ones enjoy their toys and games. Father Gerhardt at his
saw-buck during the weeks before Christmas thought of this very often.
What would little Veronica not deserve after her long illness! How he
would have liked to give each of the children a stout pair of shoes,
the boys a warm cap, the girls a pretty hood. Toys and games and candy
they always had had before. He hated to think of the snow-covered
Christmas morning and no table richly piled with what their young
hearts would most desire.

As for Mrs. Gerhardt, one could better imagine than describe her
feelings. She felt so keenly about it that she could hardly bring
herself to speak of the dreaded hour to her husband. She had managed
to lay aside three dollars in the hope of getting enough to buy a ton
of coal, and so put an end to poor George's daily pilgrimage to the
coal yard, but now as the Christmas week drew near she decided to use
it for gifts. Father Gerhardt was also secreting two dollars without
the knowledge of his wife, thinking that on Christmas Eve he could
produce it at a critical moment, and so relieve her maternal
anxiety.

When the actual time arrived, however, there was very little to be
said for the comfort that they got out of the occasion. The whole city
was rife with Christmas atmosphere. Grocery stores and meat markets
were strung with holly. The toy shops and candy stores were radiant
with fine displays of everything that a self-respecting Santa Claus
should have about him. Both parents and children observed it
all--the former with serious thoughts of need and anxiety, the
latter with wild fancy and only partially suppressed longings.

Frequently had Gerhardt said in their presence:

"Kriss Kringle is very poor this year. He hasn't so very much to
give."

But no child, however poverty-stricken, could be made to believe
this. Every time after so saying he looked into their eyes, but in
spite of the warning, expectation flamed in them undiminished.

Christmas coming on Tuesday, the Monday before there was no school.
Before going to the hotel Mrs. Gerhardt had cautioned George that he
must bring enough coal from the yards to last over Christmas day. The
latter went at once with his two younger sisters, but there being a
dearth of good picking, it took them a long time to fill their
baskets, and by night they had gathered only a scanty supply.

"Did you go for the coal?" asked Mrs. Gerhardt the first thing when
she returned from the hotel that evening.

"Yes," said George.

"Did you get enough for to-morrow?"

"Yes," he replied, "I guess so."

"Well, now, I'll go and look," she replied. Taking the lamp, they
went out into the woodshed where the coal was deposited.

"Oh, my!" she exclaimed when she saw it; "why, that isn't near
enough. You must go right off and get some more."

"Oh," said George, pouting his lips, "I don't want to go. Let Bass
go."

Bass, who had returned promptly at a quarter-past six, was already
busy in the back bedroom washing and dressing preparatory to going
down-town.

"No," said Mrs. Gerhardt. "Bass has worked hard all day. You must
go."

"I don't want to," pouted George.

"All right," said Mrs. Gerhardt, "maybe to-morrow you'll be without
a fire, and then what?"

They went back to the house, but George's conscience was too
troubled to allow him to consider the case as closed.

"Bass, you come, too," he called to his elder brother when he was
inside.

"Go where?" said Bass.

"To get some coal."

"No," said the former, "I guess not. What do you take me for?"

"Well, then, I'll not," said George, with an obstinate jerk of his
head.

"Why didn't you get it up this afternoon?" questioned his brother
sharply; "you've had all day to do it."

"Aw, I did try," said George. "We couldn't find enough. I can't get
any when there ain't any, can I?"

"I guess you didn't try very hard," said the dandy.

"What's the matter now?" asked Jennie, who, coming in after having
stopped at the grocer's for her mother, saw George with a solemn pout
on his face.

"Oh, Bass won't go with me to get any coal?"

"Didn't you get any this afternoon?"

"Yes," said George, "but ma says I didn't get enough."

"I'll go with you," said his sister. "Bass, will you come
along?"

"No," said the young man, indifferently, "I won't." He was
adjusting his necktie and felt irritated.

"There ain't any," said George, "unless we get it off the cars.
There wasn't any cars where I was."

"There are, too," exclaimed Bass.

"There ain't," said George.

"Oh, don't quarrel," said Jennie. "Get the baskets and let's go
right now before it gets too late."

The other children, who had a fondness for their big sister, got
out the implements of supply--Veronica a basket, Martha and
William buckets, and George, a big clothes-basket, which he and Jennie
were to fill and carry between them. Bass, moved by his sister's
willingness and the little regard he still maintained for her, now
made a suggestion.

"I'll tell you what you do, Jen," he said. "You go over there with
the kids to Eighth Street and wait around those cars. I'll be along in
a minute. When I come by don't any of you pretend to know me. Just you
say, 'Mister, won't you please throw us some coal down?' and then I'll
get up on the cars and pitch off enough to fill the baskets. D'ye
understand?"

"All right," said Jennie, very much pleased.

Out into the snowy night they went, and made their way to the
railroad tracks. At the intersection of the street and the broad
railroad yard were many heavily laden cars of bituminous coal newly
backed in. All of the children gathered within the shadow of one.
While they were standing there, waiting the arrival of their brother,
the Washington Special arrived, a long, fine train with several of the
new style drawing-room cars, the big plate-glass windows shining and
the passengers looking out from the depths of their comfortable
chairs. The children instinctively drew back as it thundered past.

"Oh, wasn't it long?" said George.

"Wouldn't I like to be a brakeman, though," sighed William.

Jennie, alone, kept silent, but to her particularly the suggestion
of travel and comfort had appealed. How beautiful life must be for the
rich!

Sebastian now appeared in the distance, a mannish spring in his
stride, and with every evidence that he took himself seriously. He was
of that peculiar stubbornness and determination that had the children
failed to carry out his plan of procedure he would have gone
deliberately by and refused to help them at all.

Martha, however, took the situation as it needed to be taken, and
piped out childishly, "Mister, won't you please throw us down some
coal?"

Sebastian stopped abruptly, and looking sharply at them as though
he were really a stranger, exclaimed, "Why, certainly," and proceeded
to climb up on the car, from whence he cast down with remarkable
celerity more than enough chunks to fill their baskets. Then as though
not caring to linger any longer amid such plebeian company, he
hastened across the network of tracks and was lost to view.

On their way home they encountered another gentleman, this time a
real one, with high hat and distinguished cape coat, whom Jennie
immediately recognized. This was the honorable Senator himself, newly
returned from Washington, and anticipating a very unprofitable
Christmas. He had arrived upon the express which had enlisted the
attention of the children, and was carrying his light grip for the
pleasure of it to the hotel. As he passed he thought that he
recognized Jennie.

"Is that you, Jennie?" he said, and paused to be more certain.

The latter, who had discovered him even more quickly than he had
her, exclaimed, "Oh, there is Mr. Brander!" Then, dropping her end of
the basket, with a caution to the children to take it right home, she
hurried away in the opposite direction.

The Senator followed, vainly calling three or four times "Jennie!
Jennie!" Losing hope of overtaking her, and suddenly recognizing, and
thereupon respecting, her simple, girlish shame, he stopped, and
turning back, decided to follow the children. Again he felt that same
sensation which he seemed always to get from this girl--the far
cry between her estate and his. It was something to be a Senator
to-night, here where these children were picking coal. What could the
joyous holiday of the morrow hold for them? He tramped along
sympathetically, an honest lightness coming into his step, and soon he
saw them enter the gateway of the low cottage. Crossing the street, he
stood in the weak shade of the snow-laden trees. The light was burning
with a yellow glow in a rear window. All about was the white snow. In
the woodshed he could hear the voices of the children, and once he
thought he detected the form of Mrs. Gerhardt. After a time another
form came shadow-like through the side gate. He knew who it was. It
touched him to the quick, and he bit his lip sharply to suppress any
further show of emotion. Then he turned vigorously on his heel and
walked away.

The chief grocery of the city was conducted by one Manning, a
stanch adherent of Brander, and one who felt honored by the Senator's
acquaintance. To him at his busy desk came the Senator this same
night.

"Manning," he said, "could I get you to undertake a little work for
me this evening?"

"Why, certainly, Senator, certainly," said the grocery-man. "When
did you get back? Glad to see you. Certainly."

"I want you to get everything together that would make a nice
Christmas for a family of eight--father and mother and six
children--Christmas tree, groceries, toys--you know what I
mean."

"Certainly, certainly, Senator."

"Never mind the cost now. Send plenty of everything. I'll give you
the address," and he picked up a note-book to write it.

"Why, I'll be delighted, Senator," went on Mr. Manning, rather
affected himself. "I'll be delighted. You always were generous."

"Here you are, Manning," said the Senator, grimly, from the mere
necessity of preserving his senatorial dignity. "Send everything at
once, and the bill to me."

"I'll be delighted," was all the astonished and approving
grocery-man could say.

The Senator passed out, but remembering the old people, visited a
clothier and shoe man, and, finding that he could only guess at what
sizes might be required, ordered the several articles with the
privilege of exchange. When his labors were over, he returned to his
room.

"Carrying coal," he thought, over and over. "Really, it was very
thoughtless in me. I mustn't forget them any more."




CHAPTER IV


The desire to flee which Jennie experienced upon seeing the Senator
again was attributable to what she considered the disgrace of her
position. She was ashamed to think that he, who thought so well of
her, should discover her doing so common a thing. Girl-like, she was
inclined to imagine that his interest in her depended upon something
else than her mere personality.

When she reached home Mrs. Gerhardt had heard of her flight from
the other children.

"What was the matter with you, anyhow?" asked George, when she came
in.

"Oh, nothing," she answered, but immediately turned to her mother
and said, "Mr. Brander came by and saw us."

"Oh, did he?" softly exclaimed her mother. "He's back then. What
made you run, though, you foolish girl?"

"Well, I didn't want him to see me."

"Well, maybe he didn't know you, anyhow," she said, with a certain
sympathy for her daughter's predicament.

"Oh yes, he did, too," whispered Jennie. "He called after me three
or four times."

Mrs. Gerhardt shook her head.

"What is it?" said Gerhardt, who had been hearing the conversation
from the adjoining room, and now came out.

"Oh, nothing," said the mother, who hated to explain the
significance which the Senator's personality had come to have in their
lives. "A man frightened them when they were bringing the coal."

The arrival of the Christmas presents later in the evening threw
the household into an uproar of excitement. Neither Gerhardt nor the
mother could believe their eyes when a grocery wagon halted in front
of their cottage and a lusty clerk began to carry in the gifts. After
failing to persuade the clerk that he had made a mistake, the large
assortment of good things was looked over with very human glee.

"Just you never mind," was the clerk's authoritative words. "I know
what I'm about. Gerhardt, isn't it? Well, you're the people."

Mrs. Gerhardt moved about, rubbing her hands in her excitement, and
giving vent to an occasional "Well, isn't that nice now!"

Gerhardt himself was melted at the thought of the generosity of the
unknown benefactor, and was inclined to lay it all to the goodness of
a great local mill owner, who knew him and wished him well. Mrs.
Gerhardt tearfully suspected the source, but said nothing. Jennie
knew, by instinct, the author of it all.

The afternoon of the day after Christmas Brander encountered the
mother in the hotel, Jennie having been left at home to look after the
house.

"How do you do, Mrs. Gerhardt," he exclaimed genially extending his
hand. "How did you enjoy your Christmas?"

Poor Mrs. Gerhardt took it nervously; her eyes filled rapidly with
tears.

"There, there," he said, patting her on the shoulder. "Don't cry.
You mustn't forget to get my laundry to-day."

"Oh no, sir," she returned, and would have said more had he not
walked away.

From this on, Gerhardt heard continually of the fine Senator at the
hotel, how pleasant he was, and how much he paid for his washing. With
the simplicity of a German workingman, he was easily persuaded that
Mr. Brander must be a very great and a very good man.

Jennie, whose feelings needed no encouragement in this direction,
was more than ever prejudiced in his favor.

There was developing in her that perfection of womanhood, the full
mold of form, which could not help but attract any man. Already she
was well built, and tall for a girl. Had she been dressed in the
trailing skirts of a woman of fashion she would have made a fitting
companion for a man the height of the Senator. Her eyes were
wondrously clear and bright, her skin fair, and her teeth white and
even. She was clever, too, in a sensible way, and by no means
deficient in observation. All that she lacked was training and the
assurance of which the knowledge of utter dependency despoils one. But
the carrying of washing and the compulsion to acknowledge almost
anything as a favor put her at a disadvantage.

Nowadays when she came to the hotel upon her semi-weekly errand
Senator Brander took her presence with easy grace, and to this she
responded. He often gave her little presents for herself, or for her
brothers and sisters, and he talked to her so unaffectedly that
finally the overawing sense of the great difference between them was
brushed away, and she looked upon him more as a generous friend than
as a distinguished Senator. He asked her once how she would like to go
to a seminary, thinking all the while how attractive she would be when
she came out. Finally, one evening, he called her to his side.

"Come over here, Jennie," he said, "and stand by me."

She came, and, moved by a sudden impulse, he took her hand.

"Well, Jennie," he said, studying her face in a quizzical,
interrogative way, "what do you think of me, anyhow?"

"Oh," she answered, looking consciously away, "I don't know. What
makes you ask me that?"

"Oh yes, you do," he returned. "You have some opinion of me. Tell
me now, what is it?"

"No, I haven't," she said, innocently.

"Oh yes, you have," he went on, pleasantly, interested by her
transparent evasiveness. "You must think something of me. Now, what is
it?"

"Do you mean do I like you?" she asked, frankly, looking down at
the big mop of black hair well streaked with gray which hung about his
forehead, and gave an almost lionine cast to his fine face.

"Well, yes," he said, with a sense of disappointment. She was
barren of the art of the coquette.

"Why, of course I like you," she replied, prettily.

"Haven't you ever thought anything else about me?" he went on.

"I think you're very kind," she went on, even more bashfully; she
realized now that he was still holding her hand.

"Is that all?" he asked.

"Well," she said, with fluttering eyelids, "isn't that enough?"

He looked at her, and the playful, companionable directness of her
answering gaze thrilled him through and through. He studied her face
in silence while she turned and twisted, feeling, but scarcely
understanding, the deep import of his scrutiny.

"Well," he said at last, "I think you're a fine girl. Don't you
think I'm a pretty nice man?"

"Yes," said Jennie, promptly.

He leaned back in his chair and laughed at the unconscious drollery
of her reply. She looked at him curiously, and smiled.

"What made you laugh?" she inquired.

"Oh, your answer" he returned. "I really ought not to laugh,
though. You don't appreciate me in the least. I don't believe you like
me at all."

"But I do, though," she replied, earnestly. "I think you're so
good." Her eyes showed very plainly that she felt what she was
saying.

"Well," he said, drawing her gently down to him; then, at the same
instant, he pressed his lips to her cheek.

"Oh!" she cried, straightening up, at once startled and
frightened.

It was a new note in their relationship. The senatorial quality
vanished in an instant. She recognized in him something that she had
not felt before. He seemed younger, too. She was a woman to him, and
he was playing the part of a lover. She hesitated, but not knowing
just what to do, did nothing at all.

"Well," he said, "did I frighten you?"

She looked at him, but moved by her underlying respect for this
great man, she said, with a smile, "Yes, you did."

"I did it because I like you so much."

She meditated upon this a moment, and then said, "I think I'd
better be going."

"Now then," he pleaded, "are you going to run away because of
that?"

"No," she said, moved by a curious feeling of ingratitude; "but I
ought to be going. They'll be wondering where I am."

"You're sure you're not angry about it?"

"No," she replied, and with more of a womanly air than she had ever
shown before. It was a novel experience to be in so authoritative a
position. It was so remarkable that it was somewhat confusing to both
of them.

"You're my girl, anyhow," the Senator said, rising. "I'm going to
take care of you in the future."

Jennie heard this, and it pleased her. He was so well fitted, she
thought, to do wondrous things; he was nothing less than a veritable
magician. She looked about her and the thought of coming into such a
life and such an atmosphere was heavenly. Not that she fully
understood his meaning, however. He meant to be good and generous, and
to give her fine things. Naturally she was happy. She took up the
package that she had come for, not seeing or feeling the incongruity
of her position, while he felt it as a direct reproof.

"She ought not to carry that," he thought. A great wave of sympathy
swept over him. He took her cheeks between his hands, this time in a
superior and more generous way. "Never mind, little girl," he said.
"You won't have to do this always. I'll see what I can do."

The outcome of this was simply a more sympathetic relationship
between them. He did not hesitate to ask her to sit beside him on the
arm of his chair the next time she came, and to question her
intimately about the family's condition and her own desires. Several
times he noticed that she was evading his questions, particularly in
regard to what her father was doing. She was ashamed to own that he
was sawing wood. Fearing lest something more serious was impending, he
decided to go out some day and see for himself.

This he did when a convenient morning presented itself and his
other duties did not press upon him. It was three days before the
great fight in the Legislature began which ended in his defeat.
Nothing could be done in these few remaining days. So he took his cane
and strolled forth, coming to the cottage in the course of a half
hour, and knocked boldly at the door.

Mrs. Gerhardt opened it.

"Good-morning," he said, cheerily; then, seeing her hesitate, he
added, "May I come in?"

The good mother, who was all but overcome by his astonishing
presence, wiped her hands furtively upon her much-mended apron, and,
seeing that he waited for a reply, said:

"Oh yes. Come right in."

She hurried forward, forgetting to close the door, and, offering
him a chair, asked him to be seated.

Brander, feeling sorry that he was the occasion of so much
confusion, said: "Don't trouble yourself, Mrs. Gerhardt. I was passing
and thought I'd come in. How is your husband?"

"He's well, thank you," returned the mother. "He's out working
to-day."

"Then he has found employment?"

"Yes, sir," said Mrs. Gerhardt, who hesitated, like Jennie, to say
what it was.

"The children are all well now, and in school, I hope?"

"Yes," replied Mrs. Gerhardt. She had now unfastened her apron, and
was nervously turning it in her lap.

"That's good, and where is Jennie?"

The latter, who had been ironing, had abandoned the board and had
concealed herself in the bedroom, where she was busy tidying herself
in the fear that her mother would not have the forethought to say that
she was out, and so let her have a chance for escape.

"She's here," returned the mother. "I'll call her."

"What did you tell him I was here for?" said Jennie, weakly.

"What could I do?" asked the mother.

Together they hesitated while the Senator surveyed the room. He
felt sorry to think that such deserving people must suffer so; he
intended, in a vague way, to ameliorate their condition if
possible.

"Good-morning," the Senator said to Jennie, when finally she came
hesitatingly into the room. "How do you do to-day?"

Jennie came forward, extending her hand and blushing. She found
herself so much disturbed by this visit that she could hardly find
tongue to answer his questions.

"I thought," he said, "I'd come out and find where you live. This
is a quite comfortable house. How many rooms have you?"

"Five," said Jennie. "You'll have to excuse the looks this morning.
We've been ironing, and it's all upset."

"I know," said Brander, gently. "Don't you think I understand,
Jennie? You mustn't feel nervous about me."

She noticed the comforting, personal tone he always used with her
when she was at his room, and it helped to subdue her flustered
senses.

"You mustn't think it anything if I come here occasionally. I
intend to come. I want to meet your father."

"Oh," said Jennie, "he's out to-day."

While they were talking, however, the honest woodcutter was coming
in at the gate with his buck and saw. Brander saw him, and at once
recognized him by a slight resemblance to his daughter.

"There he is now, I believe," he said.

"Oh, is he?" said Jennie, looking out.

Gerhardt, who was given to speculation these days, passed by the
window without looking up. He put his wooden buck down, and, hanging
his saw on a nail on the side of the house, came in.

"Mother," he called, in German, and, then not seeing her, he came
to the door of the front room and looked in.

Brander arose and extended his hand. The knotted and weather-beaten
German came forward, and took it with a very questioning expression of
countenance.

"This is my father, Mr. Brander," said Jennie, all her diffidence
dissolved by sympathy. "This is the gentleman from the hotel, papa,
Mr. Brander."

"What's the name?" said the German, turning his head.

"Brander," said the Senator.

"Oh yes," he said, with a considerable German accent.

"Since I had the fever I don't hear good. My wife, she spoke to me
of you."

"Yes," said the Senator, "I thought I'd come out and make your
acquaintance. You have quite a family."

"Yes," said the father, who was conscious of his very poor garments
and anxious to get away. "I have six children--all young. She's
the oldest girl."

Mrs. Gerhardt now came back, and Gerhardt, seeing his chance, said
hurriedly:

"Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll go. I broke my saw, and so I had
to stop work."

"Certainly," said Brander, graciously, realizing now why Jennie had
never wanted to explain. He half wished that she were courageous
enough not to conceal anything.

"Well, Mrs. Gerhardt," he said, when the mother was stiffly seated,
"I want to tell you that you mustn't look on me as a stranger.
Hereafter I want you to keep me informed of how things are going with
you. Jennie won't always do it."

Jennie smiled quietly. Mrs. Gerhardt only rubbed her hands.

"Yes," she answered, humbly grateful.

They talked for a few minutes, and then the Senator rose.

"Tell your husband," he said, "to come and see me next Monday at my
office in the hotel. I want to do something for him."

"Thank you," faltered Mrs. Gerhardt.

"I'll not stay any longer now," he added. "Don't forget to have him
come."

"Oh, he'll come," she returned.

Adjusting a glove on one hand, he extended the other to Jennie.

"Here is your finest treasure, Mrs. Gerhardt," he said. "I think
I'll take her."

"Well, I don't know," said her mother, "whether I could spare her
or not."

"Well," said the Senator, going toward the door, and giving Mrs.
Gerhardt his hand, "good-morning."

He nodded and walked out, while a half-dozen neighbors, who had
observed his entrance, peeked from behind curtains and drawn blinds at
the astonishing sight.

"Who can that be, anyhow?" was the general query.

"See what he gave me," said the innocent mother to her daughter the
moment he had closed the door.

It was a ten-dollar bill. He had placed it softly in her hand as he
said good-by.




CHAPTER V


Having been led by circumstances into an attitude of obligation
toward the Senator, it was not unnatural that Jennie should become
imbued with a most generous spirit of appreciation for everything he
had done and now continued to do. The Senator gave her father a letter
to a local mill owner, who saw that he received something to do. It
was not much, to be sure, a mere job as night-watchman, but it helped,
and old Gerhardt's gratitude was extravagant. Never was there such a
great, such a good man!

Nor was Mrs. Gerhardt overlooked. Once Brander sent her a dress,
and at another time a shawl. All these benefactions were made in a
spirit of mingled charity and self-gratification, but to Mrs. Gerhardt
they glowed with but one motive. Senator Brander was good-hearted.

As for Jennie, he drew nearer to her in every possible way, so that
at last she came to see him in a light which would require
considerable analysis to make clear. This fresh, young soul, however,
had too much innocence and buoyancy to consider for a moment the
world's point of view. Since that one notable and halcyon visit upon
which he had robbed her her original shyness, and implanted a tender
kiss upon her cheek, they had lived in a different atmosphere. Jennie
was his companion now, and as he more and more unbended, and even
joyously flung aside the habiliments of his dignity, her perception of
him grew clearer. They laughed and chatted in a natural way, and he
keenly enjoyed this new entrance into the radiant world of youthful
happiness.

One thing that disturbed him, however, was the occasional thought,
which he could not repress, that he was not doing right. Other people
must soon discover that he was not confining himself strictly to
conventional relations with this washer-woman's daughter. He suspected
that the housekeeper was not without knowledge that Jennie almost
invariably lingered from a quarter to three-quarters of an hour
whenever she came for or returned his laundry. He knew that it might
come to the ears of the hotel clerks, and so, in a general way, get
about town and work serious injury, but the reflection did not cause
him to modify his conduct. Sometimes he consoled himself with the
thought that he was not doing her any actual harm, and at other times
he would argue that he could not put this one delightful tenderness
out of his life. Did he not wish honestly to do her much good?

He thought of these things occasionally, and decided that he could
not stop. The self-approval which such a resolution might bring him
was hardly worth the inevitable pain of the abnegation. He had not so
very many more years to live. Why die unsatisfied?

One evening he put his arm around her and strained her to his
breast. Another time he drew her to his knee, and told her of his life
at Washington. Always now he had a caress and a kiss for her, but it
was still in a tentative, uncertain way. He did not want to reach for
her soul too deeply.

Jennie enjoyed it all innocently. Elements of fancy and novelty
entered into her life. She was an unsophisticated creature, emotional,
totally inexperienced in the matter of the affections, and yet mature
enough mentally to enjoy the attentions of this great man who had thus
bowed from his high position to make friends with her.

One evening she pushed his hair back from his forehead as she stood
by his chair, and, finding nothing else to do, took out his watch. The
great man thrilled as he looked at her pretty innocence.

"Would you like to have a watch, too?" he asked.

"Yes, indeed, I would," said Jennie, with a deep breath.

The next day he stopped as he was passing a jewelry store and
bought one. It was gold, and had pretty ornamented hands.

"Jennie," he said, when she came the next time, "I want to show you
something. See what time it is by my watch."

Jennie drew out the watch from his waistcoat pocket and started in
surprise.

"This isn't your watch!" she exclaimed, her face full of innocent
wonder.

"No," he said, delighted with his little deception. "It's
yours."

"Mine!" exclaimed Jennie. "Mine! Oh, isn't it lovely!"

"Do you think so?" he said.

Her delight touched and pleased him immensely. Her face shone with
light and her eyes fairly danced.

"That's yours," he said. "See that you wear it now, and don't lose
it."

"You're so good!" she exclaimed.

"No," he said, but he held her at arm's length by the waist, to
make up his mind what his reward should be. Slowly he drew her toward
him until, when very close, she put her arms about his neck, and laid
her cheek in gratitude against his own. This was the quintessence of
pleasure for him. He felt as he had been longing to feel for
years.

The progress of his idyl suffered a check when the great senatorial
fight came on in the Legislature. Attacked by a combination of rivals,
Brander was given the fight of his life. To his amazement he
discovered that a great railroad corporation, which had always been
friendly, was secretly throwing its strength in behalf of an already
too powerful candidate. Shocked by this defection, he was thrown
alternately into the deepest gloom and into paroxysms of wrath. These
slings of fortune, however lightly he pretended to receive them, never
failed to lacerate him. It had been long since he had suffered a
defeat--too long.

During this period Jennie received her earliest lesson in the
vagaries of men. For two weeks she did not even see him, and one
evening, after an extremely comfortless conference with his leader, he
met her with the most chilling formality. When she knocked at his door
he only troubled to open it a foot, exclaiming almost harshly: "I
can't bother about the clothes to-night. Come tomorrow."

Jennie retreated, shocked and surprised by this reception. She did
not know what to think of it. He was restored on the instant to his
far-off, mighty throne, and left to rule in peace. Why should he not
withdraw the light of his countenance if it pleased him. But
why--

A day or two later he repented mildly, but had no time to readjust
matters. His washing was taken and delivered with considerable
formality, and he went on toiling forgetfully, until at last he was
miserably defeated by two votes. Astounded by this result, he lapsed
into gloomy dejection of soul. What was he to do now?

Into this atmosphere came Jennie, bringing with her the lightness
and comfort of her own hopeful disposition. Nagged to desperation by
his thoughts, Brander first talked to her to amuse himself; but soon
his distress imperceptibly took flight; he found himself actually
smiling.

"Ah, Jennie," he said, speaking to her as he might have done to a
child, "youth is on your side. You possess the most valuable thing in
life."

"Do I?"

"Yes, but you don't realize it. You never will until it is too
late."

"I love that girl," he thought to himself that night. "I wish I
could have her with me always."

But fortune had another fling for him to endure. It got about the
hotel that Jennie was, to use the mildest expression, conducting
herself strangely. A girl who carries washing must expect criticism if
anything not befitting her station is observed in her apparel. Jennie
was seen wearing the gold watch. Her mother was informed by the
housekeeper of the state of things.

"I thought I'd speak to you about it," she said. "People are
talking. You'd better not let your daughter go to his room for the
laundry."

Mrs. Gerhardt was too astonished and hurt for utterance. Jennie had
told her nothing, but even now she did not believe there was anything
to tell. The watch had been both approved of and admired by her. She
had not thought that it was endangering her daughter's reputation.

Going home she worried almost incessantly, and talked with Jennie
about it. The latter did not admit the implication that things had
gone too far. In fact, she did not look at it in that light. She did
not own, it is true, what really had happened while she was visiting
the Senator.

"It's so terrible that people should begin to talk!" said her
mother. "Did you really stay so long in the room?"

"I don't know," returned Jennie, compelled by her conscience to
admit at least part of the truth. "Perhaps I did."

"He has never said anything out of the way to you, has he?"

"No," answered her daughter, who did not attach any suspicion of
evil to what had passed between them.

If the mother had only gone a little bit further she might have
learned more, but she was only too glad, for her own peace of mind, to
hush the matter up. People were slandering a good man, that she knew.
Jennie had been the least bit indiscreet. People were always so ready
to talk. How could the poor girl, amid such unfortunate circumstances,
do otherwise than she did. It made her cry to think of it.

The result of it all was that she decided to get the washing
herself.

She came to his door the next Monday after this decision. Brander,
who was expecting Jennie, was both surprised and disappointed.

"Why," he said to her, "what has become of Jennie?"

Having hoped that he would not notice, or, at least, not comment
upon the change, Mrs. Gerhardt did not know what to say. She looked up
at him weakly in her innocent, motherly way, and said, "She couldn't
come to-night."

"Not ill, is she?" he inquired.

"No."

"I'm glad to hear that," he said resignedly. "How have you
been?"

Mrs. Gerhardt answered his kindly inquiries and departed. After she
had gone he got to thinking the matter over, and wondered what could
have happened. It seemed rather odd that he should be wondering over
it.

On Saturday, however, when she returned the clothes he felt that
there must be something wrong.

"What's the matter, Mrs. Gerhardt?" he inquired. "Has anything
happened to your daughter?"

"No, sir," she returned, too troubled to wish to deceive him.

"Isn't she coming for the laundry any more?"

"I--I--" ventured the mother, stammering in her
perturbation; "she--they have been talking about her," she at
last forced herself to say.

"Who has been talking?" he asked gravely.

"The people here in the hotel."

"Who, what people?" he interrupted, a touch of annoyance showing in
his voice.

"The housekeeper."

"The housekeeper, eh!" he exclaimed. "What has she got to say?"

The mother related to him her experience.

"And she told you that, did she?" he remarked in wrath. "She
ventures to trouble herself about my affairs, does she? I wonder
people can't mind their own business without interfering with mine.
Your daughter, Mrs. Gerhardt, is perfectly safe with me. I have no
intention of doing her an injury. It's a shame," he added indignantly,
"that a girl can't come to my room in this hotel without having her
motive questioned. I'll look into this matter."

"I hope you don't think that I have anything to do with it," said
the mother apologetically. "I know you like Jennie and wouldn't injure
her. You've done so much for her and all of us, Mr. Brander, I feel
ashamed to keep her away."

"That's all right, Mrs. Gerhardt," he said quietly. "You did
perfectly right. I don't blame you in the least. It is the lying
accusation passed about in this hotel that I object to. We'll see
about that."

Mrs. Gerhardt stood there, pale with excitement. She was afraid she
had deeply offended this man who had done so much for them. If she
could only say something, she thought, that would clear this matter up
and make him feel that she was no tattler. Scandal was distressing to
her.

"I thought I was doing everything for the best," she said at
last.

"So you were," he replied. "I like Jennie very much. I have always
enjoyed her coming here. It is my intention to do well by her, but
perhaps it will be better to keep her away, at least for the
present."

Again that evening the Senator sat in his easy-chair and brooded
over this new development. Jennie was really much more precious to him
than he had thought. Now that he had no hope of seeing her there any
more, he began to realize how much these little visits of hers had
meant. He thought the matter over very carefully, realized instantly
that there was nothing to be done so far as the hotel gossip was
concerned, and concluded that he had really placed the girl in a very
unsatisfactory position.

"Perhaps I had better end this little affair," he thought. "It
isn't a wise thing to pursue."

On the strength of this conclusion he went to Washington and
finished his term. Then he returned to Columbus to await the friendly
recognition from the President which was to send him upon some
ministry abroad. Jennie had not been forgotten in the least. The
longer he stayed away the more eager he was to get back. When he was
again permanently settled in his old quarters he took up his cane one
morning and strolled out in the direction of the cottage. Arriving
there, he made up his mind to go in, and knocking at the door, he was
greeted by Mrs. Gerhardt and her daughter with astonished and
diffident smiles. He explained vaguely that he had been away, and
mentioned his laundry as if that were the object of his visit. Then,
when chance gave him a few moments with Jennie alone, he plunged in
boldly.

"How would you like to take a drive with me to-morrow evening?" he
asked.

"I'd like it," said Jennie, to whom the proposition was a glorious
novelty.

He smiled and patted her cheek, foolishly happy to see her again.
Every day seemed to add to her beauty. Graced with her clean white
apron, her shapely head crowned by the glory of her simply plaited
hair, she was a pleasing sight for any man to look upon.

He waited until Mrs. Gerhardt returned, and then, having
accomplished the purpose of his visit, he arose.

"I'm going to take your daughter out riding to-morrow evening," he
explained. "I want to talk to her about her future."

"Won't that be nice?" said the mother. She saw nothing incongruous
in the proposal. They parted with smiles and much handshaking.

"That man has the best heart," commented Mrs. Gerhardt. "Doesn't he
always speak so nicely of you? He may help you to an education. You
ought to be proud."

"I am," said Jennie frankly.

"I don't know whether we had better tell your father or not,"
concluded Mrs. Gerhardt. "He doesn't like for you to be out
evenings."

Finally they decided not to tell him. He might not understand.

Jennie was ready when he called. He could see by the weak-flamed,
unpretentious parlor-lamp that she was dressed for him, and that the
occasion had called out the best she had. A pale lavender gingham,
starched and ironed, until it was a model of laundering, set off her
pretty figure to perfection. There were little lace-edged cuffs and a
rather high collar attached to it. She had no gloves, nor any jewelry,
nor yet a jacket good enough to wear, but her hair was done up in such
a dainty way that it set off her well-shaped head better than any hat,
and the few ringlets that could escape crowned her as with a halo.
When Brander suggested that she should wear a jacket she hesitated a
moment; then she went in and borrowed her mother's cape, a plain gray
woolen one. Brander realized now that she had no jacket, and suffered
keenly to think that she had contemplated going without one.

"She would have endured the raw night air," he thought, "and said
nothing of it."

He looked at her and shook his head reflectively. Then they
started, and he quickly forgot everything but the great fact that she
was at his side. She talked with freedom and with a gentle girlish
enthusiasm that he found irresistibly charming.

"Why, Jennie," he said, when she had called upon him to notice how
soft the trees looked, where, outlined dimly against the new rising
moon, they were touched with its yellow light, "you're a great one. I
believe you would write poetry if you were schooled a little."

"Do you suppose I could?" she asked innocently.

"Do I suppose, little girl?" he said, taking her hand. "Do I
suppose? Why, I know. You're the dearest little day-dreamer in the
world. Of course you could write poetry. You live it. You are poetry,
my dear. Don't you worry about writing any."

This eulogy touched her as nothing else possibly could have done.
He was always saying such nice things. No one ever seemed to like or
to appreciate her half as much as he did. And how good he was!
Everybody said that. Her own father.

They rode still farther, until suddenly remembering, he said: "I
wonder what time it is. Perhaps we had better be turning back. Have
you your watch?"

Jennie started, for this watch had been the one thing of which she
had hoped he would not speak. Ever since he had returned it had been
on her mind.

In his absence the family finances had become so strained that she
had been compelled to pawn it. Martha had got to that place in the
matter of apparel where she could no longer go to school unless
something new were provided for her. And so, after much discussion, it
was decided that the watch must go.

Bass took it, and after much argument with the local pawn broker,
he had been able to bring home ten dollars. Mrs. Gerhardt expended the
money upon her children, and heaved a sigh of relief. Martha looked
very much better. Naturally, Jennie was glad.

Now, however, when the Senator spoke of it, her hour of retribution
seemed at hand. She actually trembled, and he noticed her
discomfiture.

"Why, Jennie," he said gently, "what made you start like that?"

"Nothing," she answered.

"Haven't you your watch?"

She paused, for it seemed impossible to tell a deliberate
falsehood. There was a strained silence; then she said, with a voice
that had too much of a sob in it for him not to suspect the truth,
"No, sir." He persisted, and she confessed everything.

"Well," he said, "dearest, don't feel badly about it. There never
was such another girl. I'll get your watch for you. Hereafter when you
need anything I want you to come to me. Do you hear? I want you to
promise me that. If I'm not here, I want you to write me. I'll always
be in touch with you from now on. You will have my address. Just let
me know, and I'll help you. Do you understand?"

"Yes," said Jennie.

"You'll promise to do that now, will you?'

"Yes," she replied.

For a moment neither of them spoke.

"Jennie," he said at last, the spring-like quality of the night
moving him to a burst of feeling, "I've about decided that I can't do
without you. Do you think you could make up your mind to live with me
from now on?"

Jennie looked away, not clearly understanding his words as he meant
them.

"I don't know," she said vaguely.

"Well, you think about it," he said pleasantly. "I'm serious. Would
you be willing to marry me, and let me put you away in a seminary for
a few years?"

"Go away to school?"

"Yes, after you marry me."

"I guess so," she replied. Her mother came into her mind. Maybe she
could help the family.

He looked around at her, and tried to make out the expression on
her face. It was not dark. The moon was now above the trees in the
east, and already the vast host of stars were paling before it.

"Don't you care for me at all, Jennie?" he asked.

"Yes!"

"You never come for my laundry any more, though," he returned
pathetically. It touched her to hear him say this.

"I didn't do that," she answered. "I couldn't help it; Mother
thought it was best."

"So it was," he assented. "Don't feel badly. I was only joking with
you. You'd be glad to come if you could, wouldn't you?"

"Yes, I would," she answered frankly.

He took her hand and pressed it so feelingly that all his kindly
words seemed doubly emphasized to her. Reaching up impulsively, she
put her arms about him. "You're so good to me," she said with the
loving tone of a daughter.

"You're my girl, Jennie," he said with deep feeling. "I'd do
anything in the world for you."




CHAPTER VI


The father of this unfortunate family, William Gerhardt, was a man
of considerable interest on his personal side. Born in the kingdom of
Saxony, he had had character enough to oppose the army conscription
iniquity, and to flee, in his eighteenth year, to Paris. From there he
had set forth for America, the land of promise.

Arrived in this country, he had made his way, by slow stages, from
New York to Philadelphia, and thence westward, working for a time in
the various glass factories in Pennsylvania. In one romantic village
of this new world he had found his heart's ideal. With her, a simple
American girl of German extraction, he had removed to Youngstown, and
thence to Columbus, each time following a glass manufacturer by the
name of Hammond, whose business prospered and waned by turns.

Gerhardt was an honest man, and he liked to think that others
appreciated his integrity. "William," his employer used to say to him,
"I want you because I can trust you," and this, to him, was more than
silver and gold.

This honesty, like his religious convictions, was wholly due to
inheritance. He had never reasoned about it. Father and grandfather
before him were sturdy German artisans, who had never cheated anybody
out of a dollar, and this honesty of intention came into his veins
undiminished.

His Lutheran proclivities had been strengthened by years of
church-going and the religious observances of home life, In his
father's cottage the influence of the Lutheran minister had been
all-powerful; he had inherited the feeling that the Lutheran Church
was a perfect institution, and that its teachings were of
all-importance when it came to the issue of the future life. His wife,
nominally of the Mennonite faith, was quite willing to accept her
husband's creed. And so his household became a God-fearing one;
wherever they went their first public step was to ally themselves with
the local Lutheran church, and the minister was always a welcome guest
in the Gerhardt home.

Pastor Wundt, the shepherd of the Columbus church, was a sincere
and ardent Christian, but his bigotry and hard-and-fast orthodoxy made
him intolerant. He considered that the members of his flock were
jeopardizing their eternal salvation if they danced, played cards, or
went to theaters, and he did not hesitate to declare vociferously that
hell was yawning for those who disobeyed his injunctions. Drinking,
even temperately, was a sin. Smoking--well, he smoked himself.
Right conduct in marriage, however, and innocence before that state
were absolute essentials of Christian living. Let no one talk of
salvation, he had said, for a daughter who had failed to keep her
chastity unstained, or for the parents who, by negligence, had
permitted her to fall. Hell was yawning for all such. You must walk
the straight and narrow way if you would escape eternal punishment,
and a just God was angry with sinners every day.

Gerhardt and his wife, and also Jennie, accepted the doctrines of
their Church as expounded by Mr. Wundt without reserve. With Jennie,
however, the assent was little more than nominal. Religion had as yet
no striking hold upon her. It was a pleasant thing to know that there
was a heaven, a fearsome one to realize that there was a hell. Young
girls and boys ought to be good and obey their parents. Otherwise the
whole religious problem was badly jumbled in her mind.

Gerhardt was convinced that everything spoken from the pulpit of
his church was literally true. Death and the future life were
realities to him.

Now that the years were slipping away and the problem of the world
was becoming more and more inexplicable, he clung with pathetic
anxiety to the doctrines which contained a solution. Oh, if he could
only be so honest and upright that the Lord might have no excuse for
ruling him out. He trembled not only for himself, but for his wife and
children. Would he not some day be held responsible for them? Would
not his own laxity and lack of system in inculcating the laws of
eternal life to them end in his and their damnation? He pictured to
himself the torments of hell, and wondered how it would be with him
and his in the final hour.

Naturally, such a deep religious feeling made him stern with his
children. He was prone to scan with a narrow eye the pleasures and
foibles of youthful desire. Jennie was never to have a lover if her
father had any voice in the matter. Any flirtation with the youths she
might meet upon the streets of Columbus could have no continuation in
her home. Gerhardt forgot that he was once young himself, and looked
only to the welfare of her spirit. So the Senator was a novel factor
in her life.

When he first began to be a part of their family affairs the
conventional standards of Father Gerhardt proved untrustworthy. He had
no means of judging such a character. This was no ordinary person
coquetting with his pretty daughter. The manner in which the Senator
entered the family life was so original and so plausible that he
became an active part before any one thought anything about it.
Gerhardt himself was deceived, and, expecting nothing but honor and
profit to flow to the family from such a source, accepted the interest
and the service, and plodded peacefully on. His wife did not tell him
of the many presents which had come before and since the wonderful
Christmas.

But one morning as Gerhardt was coming home from his night work a
neighbor named Otto Weaver accosted him.

"Gerhardt," he said, "I want to speak a word with you. As a friend
of yours, I want to tell you what I hear. The neighbors, you know,
they talk now about the man who comes to see your daughter."

"My daughter?" said Gerhardt, more puzzled and pained by this
abrupt attack than mere words could indicate. "Whom do you mean? I
don't know of any one who comes to see my daughter."

"No?" inquired Weaver, nearly as much astonished as the recipient
of his confidences. "The middle-aged man, with gray hair. He carries a
cane sometimes. You don't know him?"

Gerhardt racked his memory with a puzzled face.

"They say he was a senator once," went on Weaver, doubtful of what
he had got into; "I don't know."

"Ah," returned Gerhardt, measurably relieved. "Senator Brander.
Yes. He has come sometimes--so. Well, what of it?"

"It is nothing," returned the neighbor, "only they talk. He is no
longer a young man, you know. Your daughter, she goes out with him now
a few times. These people, they see that, and now they talk about her.
I thought you might want to know."

Gerhardt was shocked to the depths of his being by these terrible
words. People must have a reason for saying such things. Jennie and
her mother were seriously at fault. Still he did not hesitate to
defend his daughter.

"He is a friend of the family," he said confusedly. "People should
not talk until they know. My daughter has done nothing."

"That is so. It is nothing," continued Weaver. "People talk before
they have any grounds. You and I are old friends. I thought you might
want to know."

Gerhardt stood there motionless another minute or so t his jaw
fallen and a strange helplessness upon him. The world was such a grim
thing to have antagonistic to you. Its opinions and good favor were so
essential. How hard he had tried to live up to its rules! Why should
it not be satisfied and let him alone?

"I am glad you told me," he murmured as he started homeward. "I
will see about it. Good-by."

Gerhardt took the first opportunity to question his wife.

"What is this about Senator Brander coming out to call on Jennie?"
he asked in German. "The neighbors are talking about it."

"Why, nothing," answered Mrs. Gerhardt, in the same language. She
was decidedly taken aback at his question. "He did call two or three
times."

"You didn't tell me that," he returned, a sense of her frailty in
tolerating and shielding such weakness in one of their children
irritating him.

"No," she replied, absolutely nonplussed. "He has only been here
two or three times."

"Two or three times!" exclaimed Gerhardt, the German tendency to
talk loud coming upon him. "Two or three times! The whole neighborhood
talks about it. What is this, then?"

"He only called two or three times," Mrs. Gerhardt repeated
weakly.

"Weaver comes to me on the street," continued Gerhardt, "and tells
me that my neighbors are talking of the man my daughter is going with.
I didn't know anything about it. There I stood. I didn't know what to
say. What kind of a way is that? What must the man think of me?"

"There is nothing the matter," declared the mother, using an
effective German idiom. "Jennie has gone walking with him once or
twice. He has called here at the house. What is there now in that for
the people to talk about? Can't the girl have any pleasure at
all?"

"But he is an old man," returned Gerhardt, voicing the words of
Weaver. "He is a public citizen. What should he want to call on a girl
like Jennie for?"

"I don't know," said Mrs. Gerhardt, defensively. "He comes here to
the house. I don't know anything but good about the man. Can I tell
him not to come?"

Gerhardt paused at this. All that he knew of the Senator was
excellent. What was there now that was so terrible about it?

"The neighbors are so ready to talk. They haven't got anything else
to talk about now, so they talk about Jennie. You know whether she is
a good girl or not. Why should they say such things?" and tears came
into the soft little mother's eyes.

"That is all right," grumbled Gerhardt, "but he ought not to want
to come around and take a girl of her age out walking. It looks bad,
even if he don't mean any harm."

At this moment Jennie came in. She had heard the talking in the
front bedroom, where she slept with one of the children, but had not
suspected its import. Now her mother turned her back and bent over the
table where she was making biscuit, in order that her daughter might
not see her red eyes.

"What's the matter?" she inquired, vaguely troubled by the tense
stillness in the attitude of both her parents.

"Nothing," said Gerhardt firmly.

Mrs. Gerhardt made no sign, but her very immobility told something.
Jennie went over to her and quickly discovered that she had been
weeping.

"What's the matter?" she repeated wonderingly, gazing at her
father.

Gerhardt only stood there, his daughter's innocence dominating his
terror of evil.

"What's the matter?" she urged softly of her mother.

"Oh, it's the neighbors," returned the mother brokenly.

"They're always ready to talk about something they don't know
anything about."

"Is it me again?" inquired Jennie, her face flushing faintly.

"You see," observed Gerhardt, apparently addressing the world in
general, "she knows. Now, why didn't you tell me that he was coming
here? The neighbors talk, and I hear nothing about it until to-day.
What kind of a way is that, anyhow?"

"Oh," exclaimed Jennie, out of the purest sympathy for her mother,
"what difference does it make?"

"What difference?" cried Gerhardt, still talking in German,
although Jennie answered in English. "Is it no difference that men
stop me on the street and speak of it? You should be ashamed of
yourself to say that. I always thought well of this man, but now,
since you don't tell me about him, and the neighbors talk, I don't
know what to think. Must I get my knowledge of what is going on in my
own home from my neighbors?"

Mother and daughter paused. Jennie had already begun to think that
their error was serious.

"I didn't keep anything from you because it was evil," she said.
"Why, he only took me out riding once."

"Yes, but you didn't tell me that," answered her father.

"You know you don't like for me to go out after dark," replied
Jennie. "That's why I didn't. There wasn't anything else to hide about
it."

"He shouldn't want you to go out after dark with him," observed
Gerhardt, always mindful of the world outside. "What can he want with
you. Why does he come here? He is too old, anyhow. I don't think you
ought to have anything to do with him--such a young girl as you
are."

"He doesn't want to do anything except help me," murmured Jennie.
"He wants to marry me."

"Marry you? Ha! Why doesn't he tell me that!" exclaimed Gerhardt.
"I shall look into this. I won't have him running around with my
daughter, and the neighbors talking. Besides, he is too old. I shall
tell him that. He ought to know better than to put a girl where she
gets talked about. It is better he should stay away altogether."

This threat of Gerhardt's, that he would tell Brander to stay away,
seemed simply terrible to Jennie and to her mother. What good could
come of any such attitude? Why must they be degraded before him? Of
course Brander did call again, while Gerhardt was away at work, and
they trembled lest the father should hear of it. A few days later the
Senator came and took Jennie for a long walk. Neither she nor her
mother said anything to Gerhardt. But he was not to be put off the
scent for long.

"Has Jennie been out again with that man?" he inquired of Mrs.
Gerhardt the next evening.

"He was here last night," returned the mother, evasively.

"Did she tell him he shouldn't come any more?"

"I don't know. I don't think so."

"Well, now, I will see for myself once whether this thing will be
stopped or not," said the determined father. "I shall talk with him.
Wait till he comes again."

In accordance with this, he took occasion to come up from his
factory on three different evenings, each time carefully surveying the
house, in order to discover whether any visitor was being entertained.
On the fourth evening Brander came, and inquiring for Jennie, who was
exceedingly nervous, he took her out for a walk. She was afraid of her
father, lest some unseemly things should happen, but did not know
exactly what to do.

Gerhardt, who was on his way to the house at the time, observed her
departure. That was enough for him. Walking deliberately in upon his
wife, he said:

"Where is Jennie?"

"She is out somewhere," said her mother.

"Yes, I know where," said Gerhardt. "I saw her. Now wait till she
comes home. I will tell him."

He sat down calmly, reading a German paper and keeping an eye upon
his wife, until, at last, the gate clicked, and the front door opened.
Then he got up.

"Where have you been?" he exclaimed in German.

Brander, who had not suspected that any trouble of this character
was pending, felt irritated and uncomfortable. Jennie was covered with
confusion. Her mother was suffering an agony of torment in the
kitchen.

"Why, I have been out for a walk," she answered confusedly.

"Didn't I tell you not to go out any more after dark?" said
Gerhardt, utterly ignoring Brander.

Jennie colored furiously, unable to speak a word.

"What is the trouble?" inquired Brander gravely. "Why should you
talk to her like that?"

"She should not go out after dark," returned the father rudely. "I
have told her two or three times now. I don't think you ought to come
here any more, either."

"And why?" asked the Senator, pausing to consider and choose his
words. "Isn't this rather peculiar? What has your daughter done?"

"What has she done!" exclaimed Gerhardt, his excitement growing
under the strain he was enduring, and speaking almost unaccented
English in consequence. "She is running around the streets at night
when she oughtn't to be. I don't want my daughter taken out after dark
by a man of your age. What do you want with her anyway? She is only a
child yet."

"Want!" said the Senator, straining to regain his ruffled dignity.
"I want to talk with her, of course. She is old enough to be
interesting to me. I want to marry her if she will have me."

"I want you to go out of here and stay out of here," returned the
father, losing all sense of logic, and descending to the ordinary
level of parental compulsion. "I don't want you to come around my
house any more. I have enough trouble without my daughter being taken
out and given a bad name."

"I tell you frankly," said the Senator, drawing himself up to his
full height, "that you will have to make clear your meaning. I have
done nothing that I am ashamed of. Your daughter has not come to any
harm through me. Now, I want to know what you mean by conducting
yourself in this manner."

"I mean," said Gerhardt, excitedly repeating himself, "I mean, I
mean that the whole neighborhood talks about how you come around here,
and have buggy-rides and walks with my daughter when I am not
here--that's what I mean. I mean that you are no man of honorable
intentions, or you would not come taking up with a little girl who is
only old enough to be your daughter. People tell me well enough what
you are. Just you go and leave my daughter alone."

"People!" said the Senator. "Well, I care nothing for your people.
I love your daughter, and I am here to see her because I do love her.
It is my intention to marry her, and if your neighbors have anything
to say to that, let them say it. There is no reason why you should
conduct yourself in this manner before you know what my intentions
are."

Unnerved by this unexpected and terrible altercation, Jennie had
backed away to the door leading out into the dining-room, and her
mother, seeing her, came forward.

"Oh," said the latter, breathing excitedly, "he came home when you
were away. What shall we do?" They clung together, as women do, and
wept silently. The dispute continued.

"Marry, eh," exclaimed the father. "Is that it?"

"Yes," said the Senator, "marry, that is exactly it. Your daughter
is eighteen years of age and can decide for herself. You have insulted
me and outraged your daughter's feelings. Now, I wish you to know that
it cannot stop here. If you have any cause to say anything against me
outside of mere hearsay I wish you to say it."

The Senator stood before him, a very citadel of righteousness. He
was neither loud-voiced nor angry-mannered, but there was a tightness
about his lips which bespoke the man of force and determination.

"I don't want to talk to you any more," returned Gerhardt, who was
checked but not overawed. "My daughter is my daughter. I am the one
who will say whether she shall go out at night, or whether she shall
marry you, either. I know what you politicians are. When I first met
you I thought you were a fine man, but now, since I see the way you
conduct yourself with my daughter, I don't want anything more to do
with you. Just you go and stay away from here. That's all I ask of
you."

"I am sorry, Mrs. Gerhardt," said Brander, turning deliberately
away from the angry father, "to have had such an argument in your
home. I had no idea that your husband was opposed to my visits.
However, I will leave the matter as it stands for the present. You
must not take all this as badly as it seems."

Gerhardt looked on in astonishment at his coolness.

"I will go now," he said, again addressing Gerhardt, "but you
mustn't think that I am leaving this matter for good. You have made a
serious mistake this evening. I hope you will realize that. I bid you
goodnight." He bowed slightly and went out.

Gerhardt closed the door firmly. "Now," he said, turning to his
daughter and wife, "we will see whether we are rid of him or not. I
will show you how to go after night upon the streets when everybody is
talking already."

In so far as words were concerned, the argument ceased, but looks
and feeling ran strong and deep, and for days thereafter scarcely a
word was spoken in the little cottage. Gerhardt began to brood over
the fact that he had accepted his place from the Senator and decided
to give it up. He made it known that no more of the Senator's washing
was to be done in their house, and if he had not been sure that Mrs.
Gerhardt's hotel work was due to her own efforts in finding it he
would have stopped that. No good would come out of it, anyway. If she
had never gone to the hotel all this talk would never have come upon
them.

As for the Senator, he went away decidedly ruffled by this crude
occurrence. Neighborhood slanders are bad enough on their own plane,
but for a man of his standing to descend and become involved in one
struck him now as being a little bit unworthy. He did not know what to
do about the situation, and while he was trying to come to some
decision several days went by. Then he was called to Washington, and
he went away without having seen Jennie again.

In the mean time the Gerhardt family struggled along as before.
They were poor, indeed, but Gerhardt was willing to face poverty if
only it could be endured with honor. The grocery bills were of the
same size, however. The children's clothing was steadily wearing out.
Economy had to be practised, and payments stopped on old bills that
Gerhardt was trying to adjust.

Then came a day when the annual interest on the mortgage was due,
and yet another when two different grocery-men met Gerhardt on the
street and asked about their little bills. He did not hesitate to
explain just what the situation was, and to tell them with convincing
honesty that he would try hard and do the best he could. But his
spirit was unstrung by his misfortunes. He prayed for the favor of
Heaven while at his labor, and did not hesitate to use the daylight
hours that he should have had for sleeping to go about--either
looking for a more remunerative position or to obtain such little jobs
as he could now and then pick up. One of them was that of cutting
grass.

Mrs. Gerhardt protested that he was killing himself, but he
explained his procedure by pointing to their necessity.

"When people stop me on the street and ask me for money I have no
time to sleep."

It was a distressing situation for all of them.

To cap it all, Sebastian got in jail. It was that old coal-stealing
ruse of his practised once too often. He got up on a car one evening
while Jennie and the children waited for him, and a railroad detective
arrested him. There had been a good deal of coal stealing during the
past two years, but so long as it was confined to moderate quantities
the railroad took no notice. When, however, customers of shippers
complained that cars from the Pennsylvania fields lost thousands of
pounds in transit to Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago, and other points,
detectives were set to work. Gerhardt's children were not the only
ones who preyed upon the railroad in this way. Other families in
Columbus--many of them--were constantly doing the same thing,
but Sebastian happened to be seized upon as the Columbus example.

"You come off that car now," said the detective, suddenly appearing
out of the shadow. Jennie and the other children dropped their baskets
and buckets and fled for their lives. Sebastian's first impulse was to
jump and run, but when he tried it the detective grabbed him by the
coat.

"Hold on here," he exclaimed. "I want you."

"Aw, let go," said Sebastian savagely, for he was no weakling.
There was nerve and determination in him, as well as a keen sense of
his awkward predicament.

"Let go, I tell you," he reiterated, and giving a jerk, he almost
upset his captor.

"Come here now," said the detective, pulling him viciously in an
effort to establish his authority.

Sebastian came, but it was with a blow which staggered his
adversary.

There was more struggling, and then a passing railroad hand came to
the detective's assistance. Together they hurried him toward the
depot, and there discovering the local officer, turned him over. It
was with a torn coat, scarred hands and face, and a black eye that
Sebastian was locked up for the night.

When the children came home they could not say what had happened to
their brother, but as nine o'clock struck, and then ten and eleven,
and Sebastian did not return, Mrs. Gerhardt was beside herself. He had
stayed out many a night as late as twelve and one, but his mother had
a foreboding of something terrible tonight. When half-past one
arrived, and no Sebastian, she began to cry.

"Some one ought to go up and tell your father," she said. "He may
be in jail."

Jennie volunteered, but George, who was soundly sleeping, was
awakened to go along with her.

"What!" said Gerhardt, astonished to see his two children.

"Bass hasn't come yet," said Jennie, and then told the story of the
evening's adventure in explanation.

Gerhardt left his work at once, walking back with his two children
to a point where he could turn off to go to the jail. He guessed what
had happened, and his heart was troubled.

"Is that so, now!" he repeated nervously, rubbing his clumsy hands
across his wet forehead.

Arrived at the station-house, the sergeant in charge told him
curtly that Bass was under arrest.

"Sebastian Gerhardt?" he said, looking over his blotter; "yes, here
he is. Stealing coal and resisting an officer. Is he your boy?"

"Oh, my!" said Gerhardt, "Ach Gott!" He actually wrung his
hands in distress.

"Want to see him?" asked the Sergeant.

"Yes, yes," said the father.

"Take him back, Fred," said the other to the old watchman in
charge, "and let him see the boy."

When Gerhardt stood in the back room, and Sebastian was brought out
all marked and tousled, he broke down and began to cry. No word could
cross his lips because of his emotion.

"Don't cry, pop," said Sebastian bravely. "I couldn't help it. It's
all right. I'll be out in the morning."

Gerhardt only shook with his grief.

"Don't cry," continued Sebastian, doing his very best to restrain
his own tears. "I'll be all right. What's the use of crying?"

"I know, I know," said the gray-headed parent brokenly, "but I
can't help it. It is my fault that I should let you do that."

"No, no, it isn't," said Sebastian. "You couldn't help it. Does
mother know anything about it?"

"Yes, she knows," he returned. "Jennie and George just came up
where I was and told me. I didn't know anything about it until just
now," and he began to cry again.

"Well, don't you feel badly," went on Bass, the finest part of his
nature coming to the surface. "I'll be all right. Just you go back to
work now, and don't worry. I'll be all right."

"How did you hurt your eye?" asked the father, looking at him with
red eyes.

"Oh, I had a little wrestling match with the man who nabbed me,"
said the boy, smiling bravely. "I thought I could get away."

"You shouldn't do that, Sebastian," said the father. "It may go
harder with you on that account. When does your case come up?"

"In the morning, they told me," said Bass. "Nine o'clock."

Gerhardt stayed with his son for some time, and discussed the
question of bail, fine, and the dire possibility of a jail sentence
without arriving at any definite conclusion. Finally he was persuaded
by Bass to go away, but the departure was the occasion for another
outburst of feeling; he was led away shaking and broken with
emotion.

"It's pretty tough," said Bass to himself as he was led back to his
cell. He was thinking solely of his father. "I wonder what ma will
think."

The thought of this touched him tenderly. "I wish I'd knocked the
dub over the first crack," he said. "What a fool I was not to get
away."




CHAPTER VII


Gerhardt was in despair; he did not know any one to whom he could
appeal between the hours of two and nine o'clock in the morning. He
went back to talk with his wife, and then to his post of duty. What
was to be done? He could think of only one friend who was able, or
possibly willing to do anything. This was the glass manufacturer,
Hammond; but he was not in the city. Gerhardt did not know this,
however.

When nine o'clock came, he went alone to the court, for it was
thought advisable that the others should stay away. Mrs. Gerhardt was
to hear immediately what happened. He would come right back.

When Sebastian was lined up inside the dock he had to wait a long
time, for there were several prisoners ahead of him. Finally his name
was called, and the boy was pushed forward to the bar. "Stealing coal,
Your Honor, and resisting arrest," explained the officer who had
arrested him.

The magistrate looked at Sebastian closely; he was unfavorably
impressed by the lad's scratched and wounded face.

"Well, young man," he said, "what have you to say for yourself? How
did you get your black eye?"

Sebastian looked at the judge, but did not answer.

"I arrested him," said the detective. "He was on one of the
company's cars. He tried to break away from me, and when I held him he
assaulted me. This man here was a witness," he added, turning to the
railroad hand who had helped him.

"Is that where he struck you?" asked the Court, observing the
detective's swollen jaw.

"Yes, sir," he returned, glad of an opportunity to be further
revenged.

"If you please," put in Gerhardt, leaning forward, "he is my boy.
He was sent to get the coal. He--"

"We don't mind what they pick up around the yard," interrupted the
detective, "but he was throwing it off the cars to half a dozen
others."

"Can't you earn enough to keep from taking coal off the coal cars?"
asked the Court; but before either father or son had time to answer he
added, "What is your business?"

"Car builder," said Sebastian.

"And what do you do?" he questioned, addressing Gerhardt.

"I am watchman at Miller's furniture factory."

"Um," said the court, feeling that Sebastian's attitude remained
sullen and contentious. "Well, this young man might be let off on the
coal-stealing charge, but he seems to be somewhat too free with his
fists. Columbus is altogether too rich in that sort of thing. Ten
dollars."

"If you please," began Gerhardt, but the court officer was already
pushing him away.

"I don't want to hear any more about it," said the judge. "He's
stubborn, anyhow. What's the next case?"

Gerhardt made his way over to his boy, abashed and yet very glad it
was no worse. Somehow, he thought, he could raise the money. Sebastian
looked at him solicitously as he came forward.

"It's all right," said Bass soothingly. "He didn't give me half a
chance to say anything."

"I'm only glad it wasn't more," said Gerhardt nervously. "We will
try and get the money."

Going home to his wife, Gerhardt informed the troubled household of
the result. Mrs. Gerhardt stood white and yet relieved, for ten
dollars seemed something that might be had. Jennie heard the whole
story with open mouth and wide eyes. It was a terrible blow to her.
Poor Bass! He was always so lively and good-natured. It seemed awful
that he should be in jail.

Gerhardt went hurriedly to Hammond's fine residence, but he was not
in the city. He thought then of a lawyer by the name of Jenkins, whom
he knew in a casual way, but Jenkins was not at his office. There were
several grocers and coal merchants whom he knew well enough, but he
owed them money. Pastor Wundt might let him have it, but the agony
such a disclosure to that worthy would entail held him back. He did
call on one or two acquaintances, but these, surprised at the unusual
and peculiar request, excused themselves. At four o'clock he returned
home, weary and exhausted.

"I don't know what to do," he said despairingly. "If I could only
think."

Jennie thought of Brander, but the situation had not accentuated
her desperation to the point where she could brave her father's
opposition and his terrible insult to the Senator, so keenly
remembered, to go and ask. Her watch had been pawned a second time,
and she had no other means of obtaining money.

The family council lasted until half-past ten, but still there was
nothing decided. Mrs. Gerhardt persistently and monotonously turned
one hand over in the other and stared at the floor. Gerhardt ran his
hand through his reddish brown hair distractedly. "It's no use," he
said at last. "I can't think of anything."

"Go to bed, Jennie," said her mother solicitously; "get the others
to go. There's no use their sitting up I may think of something. You
go to bed."

Jennie went to her room, but the very thought of repose was
insupportable. She had read in the paper, shortly after her father's
quarrel with the Senator, that the latter had departed for Washington.
There had been no notice of his return. Still he might be in the city.
She stood before a short, narrow mirror that surmounted a shabby
bureau, thinking. Her sister Veronica, with whom she slept, was
already composing herself to dreams. Finally a grim resolution fixed
itself in her consciousness. She would go and see Senator Brander. If
he were in town he would help Bass. Why shouldn't she--he
loved her. He had asked over and over to marry her. Why should she not
go and ask him for help?

She hesitated a little while, then hearing Veronica breathing
regularly, she put on her hat and jacket, and noiselessly opened the
door into the sitting-room to see if any one were stirring.

There was no sound save that of Gerhardt rocking nervously to and
fro in the kitchen. There was no light save that of her own small
room-lamp and a gleam from under the kitchen door. She turned and blew
the former out--then slipped quietly to the front door, opened it
and stepped out into the night.

A waning moon was shining, and a hushed sense of growing life
filled the air, for it was nearing spring again. As Jennie hurried
along the shadowy streets--the arc light had not yet been
invented--she had a sinking sense of fear; what was this rash
thing she was about to do? How would the Senator receive her? What
would he think? She stood stock-still, wavering and doubtful; then the
recollection of Bass in his night cell came over her again, and she
hurried on.

The character of the Capitol Hotel was such that it was not
difficult for a woman to find ingress through the ladies' entrance to
the various floors of the hotel at any hour of the night. The hotel,
not unlike many others of the time, was in no sense loosely conducted,
but its method of supervision in places was lax. Any person could
enter, and, by applying at a rear entrance to the lobby, gain the
attention of the clerk. Otherwise not much notice was taken of those
who came and went.

When she came to the door it was dark save for a low light burning
in the entry-way. The distance to the Senator's room was only a short
way along the hall of the second floor. She hurried up the steps,
nervous and pale, but giving no other outward sign of the storm that
was surging within her. When she came to his familiar door she paused;
she feared that she might not find him in his room; she trembled again
to think that he might be there. A light shone through the transom,
and, summoning all her courage, she knocked. A man coughed and
bestirred himself.

His surprise as he opened the door knew no bounds. "Why, Jennie!"
he exclaimed. "How delightful! I was thinking of you. Come
in--come in."

He welcomed her with an eager embrace.

"I was coming out to see you, believe me, I was. I was thinking all
along how I could straighten this matter out. And now you come. But
what's the trouble?"

He held her at arm's length and studied her distressed face. The
fresh beauty of her seemed to him like cut lilies wet with dew.

He felt a great surge of tenderness.

"I have something to ask you," she at last brought herself to say.
"My brother is in jail. We need ten dollars to get him out, and I
didn't know where else to go."

"My poor child!" he said, chafing her hands. "Where else should you
go? Haven't I told you always to come to me? Don't you know, Jennie, I
would do anything in the world for you?"

"Yes," she gasped.

"Well, then, don't worry about that any more. But won't fate ever
cease striking at you, poor child? How did your brother come to get in
jail?"

"They caught him throwing coal down from the cars," she
replied.

"Ah!" he replied, his sympathies touched and awakened. Here was
this boy arrested and fined for what fate was practically driving him
to do. Here was this girl pleading with him at night, in his room, for
what to her was a great necessity--ten dollars; to him, a mere
nothing. "I will arrange about your brother," he said quickly. "Don't
worry. I can get him out in half an hour. You sit here now and be
comfortable until I return."

He waved her to his easy-chair beside a large lamp, and hurried out
of the room.

Brander knew the sheriff who had personal supervision of the county
jail. He knew the judge who had administered the fine. It was but a
five minutes' task to write a note to the judge asking him to revoke
the fine, for the sake of the boy's character, and send it by a
messenger to his home. Another ten minutes' task to go personally to
the jail and ask his friend, the sheriff, to release the boy then and
there.

"Here is the money," he said. "If the fine is revoked you can
return it to me. Let him go now."

The sheriff was only too glad to comply. He hastened below to
personally supervise the task, and Bass, a very much astonished boy,
was set free. No explanations were vouchsafed him.

"That's all right now," said the turnkey. "You're at liberty. Run
along home and don't let them catch you at anything like that
again."

Bass went his way wondering, and the ex-Senator returned to his
hotel trying to decide just how this delicate situation should be
handled. Obviously Jennie had not told her father of her mission. She
had come as a last resource. She was now waiting for him in his
room.

There are crises in all men's lives when they waver between the
strict fulfilment of justice and duty and the great possibilities for
personal happiness which another line of conduct seems to assure. And
the dividing line is not always marked and clear. He knew that the
issue of taking her, even as his wife, was made difficult by the
senseless opposition of her father. The opinion of the world brought
up still another complication. Supposing he should take her openly,
what would the world say? She was a significant type emotionally, that
he knew. There was something there--artistically,
temperamentally, which was far and beyond the keenest suspicion of the
herd. He did not know himself quite what it was, but he felt a
largeness of feeling not altogether squared with intellect, or perhaps
better yet, experience, which was worthy of any man's desire. "This
remarkable girl," he thought, seeing her clearly in his mind's
eye.

Meditating as to what he should do, he returned to his hotel, and
the room. As he entered he was struck anew with her beauty, and with
the irresistible appeal of her personality. In the glow of the shaded
lamp she seemed a figure of marvelous potentiality.

"Well," he said, endeavoring to appear calm, "I have looked after
your brother. He is out."

She rose.

"Oh," she exclaimed, clasping her hands and stretching her arms out
toward him. There were tears of gratefulness in her eyes.

He saw them and stepped close to her. "Jennie, for heaven's sake
don't cry," he entreated. "You angel! You sister of mercy! To think
you should have to add tears to your other sacrifices."

He drew her to him, and then all the caution of years deserted him.
There was a sense both of need and of fulfilment in his mood. At last,
in spite of other losses, fate had brought him what he most
desired--love, a woman whom he could love. He took her in his
arms, and kissed her again and again.

The English Jefferies has told us that it requires a hundred and
fifty years to make a perfect maiden. "From all enchanted things of
earth and air, this preciousness has been drawn. From the south wind
that breathed a century and a half over the green wheat; from the
perfume of the growing grasses waving over heavy-laden clover and
laughing veronica, hiding the green finches, baffling the bee; from
rose-lined hedge, woodbine, and cornflower, azure blue, where
yellowing wheat stalks crowd up under the shadow of green firs. All
the devious brooklets' sweetness where the iris stays the sunlight;
all the wild woods hold of beauty; all the broad hills of thyme and
freedom thrice a hundred years repeated.

"A hundred years of cowslips, bluebells, violets; purple spring and
golden autumn; sunshine, shower, and dewy mornings; the night
immortal; all the rhythm of time unrolling. A chronicle unwritten and
past all power of writing; who shall preserve a record of the petals
that fell from the roses a century ago? The swallows to the house-tops
three hundred--times think of that! Thence she sprang, and the
world yearns toward her beauty as to flowers that are past. The
loveliness of seventeen is centuries old. That is why passion is
almost sad."

If you have understood and appreciated the beauty of harebells
three hundred times repeated; if the quality of the roses, of the
music, of the ruddy mornings and evenings of the world has ever
touched your heart; if all beauty were passing, and you were given
these things to hold in your arms before the world slipped away, would
you give them up?




CHAPTER VIII


The significance of the material and spiritual changes which
sometimes overtake us are not very clear at the time. A sense of
shock, a sense of danger, and then apparently we subside to old ways,
but the change has come. Never again, here or elsewhere, will we be
the same. Jennie pondering after the subtle emotional turn which her
evening's sympathetic expedition had taken, was lost in a vague
confusion of emotions. She had no definite realization of what social
and physical changes this new relationship to the Senator might
entail. She was not conscious as yet of that shock which the
possibility of maternity, even under the most favorable conditions,
must bring to the average woman. Her present attitude was one of
surprise, wonder, uncertainty; and at the same time she experienced a
genuine feeling of quiet happiness. Brander was a good man; now he was
closer to her than ever. He loved her. Because of this new
relationship a change in her social condition was to inevitably
follow. Life was to be radically different from now on--was
different at this moment. Brander assured her over and over of his
enduring affection.

"I tell you, Jennie," he repeated, as she was leaving, "I don't
want you to worry. This emotion of mine got the best of me, but I'll
marry you. I've been carried off my feet, but I'll make it up to you.
Go home and say nothing at all. Caution your brother, if it isn't too
late. Keep your own counsel, and I will marry you and take you away. I
can't do it right now. I don't want to do it here. But I'm going to
Washington, and I'll send for you. And here"--he reached for his
purse and took from it a hundred dollars, practically all he had with
him, "take that. I'll send you more tomorrow. You're my girl
now--remember that. You belong to me."

He embraced her tenderly.

She went out into the night, thinking. No doubt he would do as he
said. She dwelt, in imagination, upon the possibilities of a new and
fascinating existence. Of course he would marry her. Think of it! She
would go to Washington--that far-off place. And her father and
mother--they would not need to work so hard any more. And Bass,
and Martha--she fairly glowed as she recounted to herself the
many ways in which she could help them all.

A block away she waited for Brander, who accompanied her to her own
gate, and waited while she made a cautious reconnaissance. She slipped
up the steps and tried the door. It was open. She paused a moment to
indicate to her lover that she was safe, and entered. All was silent
within. She slipped to her own room and heard Veronica breathing. She
went quietly to where Bass slept with George. He was in bed, stretched
out as if asleep. When she entered he asked, "Is that you,
Jennie?"

"Yes."

"Where have you been?"

"Listen," she whispered. "Have you seen papa and mamma?"

"Yes."

"Did they know I had gone out?"

"Ma did. She told me not to ask after you. Where have you
been?"

"I went to see Senator Brander for you."

"Oh, that was it. They didn't say why they let me out."

"Don't tell any one," she pleaded. "I don't want any one to know.
You know how papa feels about him."

"All right," he replied. But he was curious as to what the
ex-Senator thought, what he had done, and how she had appealed to him.
She explained briefly, then she heard her mother come to the door.

"Jennie," she whispered.

Jennie went out.

"Oh, why did you go?" she asked.

"I couldn't help it, ma," she replied. "I thought I must do
something."

"Why did you stay so long?"

"He wanted to talk to me," she answered evasively.

Her mother looked at her nervously, wanly.

"I have been so afraid, oh, so afraid. Your father went to your
room, but I said you were asleep. He locked the front door, but I
opened it again. When Bass came in he wanted to call you, but I
persuaded him to wait until morning."

Again she looked wistfully at her daughter.

"I'm all right, mamma," said Jennie encouragingly. "I'll tell you
all about it to-morrow. Go to bed. How does he think Bass got
out?"

"He doesn't know. He thought maybe they just let him go because he
couldn't pay the fine."

Jennie laid her hand lovingly on her mother's shoulder.

"Go to bed," she said.

She was already years older in thought and act. She felt as though
she must help her mother now as well as herself.

The days which followed were ones of dreamy uncertainty to Jennie.
She went over in her mind these dramatic events time and time and time
and again. It was not such a difficult matter to tell her mother that
the Senator had talked again of marriage, that he proposed to come and
get her after his next trip to Washington, that he had given her a
hundred dollars and intended to give her more, but of that other
matter--the one all-important thing, she could not bring herself
to speak. It was too sacred. The balance of the money that he had
promised her arrived by messenger the following day, four hundred
dollars in bills, with the admonition that she should put it in a
local bank. The ex-Senator explained that he was already on his way to
Washington, but that he would come back or send for her. "Keep a stout
heart," he wrote. "There are better days in store for you."

Brander was gone, and Jennie's fate was really in the balance. But
her mind still retained all of the heart-innocence, and
unsophistication of her youth; a certain gentle wistfulness was the
only outward change in her demeanor. He would surely send for her.
There was the mirage of a distant country and wondrous scenes looming
up in her mind. She had a little fortune in the bank, more than she
had ever dreamed of, with which to help her mother. There were
natural, girlish anticipations of good still holding over, which made
her less apprehensive than she could otherwise possibly have been. All
nature, life, possibility was in the balance. It might turn good, or
ill, but with so inexperienced a soul it would not be entirely evil
until it was so.

How a mind under such uncertain circumstances could retain so
comparatively placid a vein is one of those marvels which find their
explanation in the inherent trustfulness of the spirit of youth. It is
not often that the minds of men retain the perceptions of their
younger days. The marvel is not that one should thus retain, but that
any should ever lose them Go the world over, and after you have put
away the wonder and tenderness of youth what is there left? The few
sprigs of green that sometimes invade the barrenness of your
materialism, the few glimpses of summer which flash past the eye of
the wintry soul, the half hours off during the long tedium of
burrowing, these reveal to the hardened earth-seeker the universe
which the youthful mind has with it always. No fear and no favor; the
open fields and the light upon the hills; morning, noon, night; stars,
the bird-calls, the water's purl--these are the natural
inheritance of the mind of the child. Men call it poetic, those who
are hardened fanciful. In the days of their youth it was natural, but
the receptiveness of youth has departed, and they cannot see.

How this worked out in her personal actions was to be seen only in
a slightly accentuated wistfulness, a touch of which was in every
task. Sometimes she would wonder that no letter came, but at the same
time she would recall the fact that he had specified a few weeks, and
hence the six that actually elapsed did not seem so long.

In the meanwhile the distinguished ex-Senator had gone
light-heartedly to his conference with the President, he had joined in
a pleasant round of social calls, and he was about to pay a short
country visit to some friends in Maryland, when he was seized with a
slight attack of fever, which confined him to his room for a few days.
He felt a little irritated that he should be laid up just at this
time, but never suspected that there was anything serious in his
indisposition. Then the doctor discovered that he was suffering from a
virulent form of typhoid, the ravages of which took away his senses
for a time and left him very weak. He was thought to be convalescing,
however, when just six weeks after he had last parted with Jennie, he
was seized with a sudden attack of heart failure and never regained
consciousness. Jennie remained blissfully ignorant of his illness and
did not even see the heavy-typed headlines of the announcement of his
death until Bass came home that evening.

"Look here, Jennie," he said excitedly, "Brander's dead!"

He held up the newspaper, on the first column of Which was printed
in heavy block type:

DEATH OF EX-SENATOR BRANDER

Sudden Passing of Ohio's Distinguished Son. Succumbs to Heart Failure
at the Arlington, in Washington.

Recent attack of typhoid, from which he was thought to be recovering,
proves fatal. Notable phases of a remarkable career.

Jennie looked at it in blank amazement. "Dead?" she exclaimed.

"There it is in the paper," returned Bass, his tone being that of
one who is imparting a very interesting piece of news. "He died at ten
o'clock this morning."




CHAPTER IX


Jennie took the paper with but ill-concealed trembling and went
into the adjoining room. There she stood by the front window and
looked at it again, a sickening sensation of dread holding her as
though in a trance.

"He is dead," was all that her mind could formulate for the time,
and as she stood there the voice of Bass recounting the fact to
Gerhardt in the adjoining room sounded in her ears. "Yes, he is dead,"
she heard him say; and once again she tried to get some conception of
what it meant to her. But her mind seemed a blank.

A moment later Mrs. Gerhardt joined her. She had heard Bass's
announcement and had seen Jennie leave the room, but her trouble with
Gerhardt over the Senator had caused her to be careful of any display
of emotion. No conception of the real state of affairs ever having
crossed her mind, she was only interested in seeing how Jennie would
take this sudden annihilation of her hopes.

"Isn't it too bad?" she said, with real sorrow. "To think that he
should have to die just when he was going to do so much for
you--for us all."

She paused, expecting some word of agreement, but Jennie remained
unwontedly dumb.

"I wouldn't feel badly," continued Mrs. Gerhardt. "It can't be
helped. He meant to do a good deal, but you mustn't think of that now.
It's all over, and it can't be helped, you know."

She paused again, and still Jennie remained motionless and mute.
Mrs. Gerhardt, seeing how useless her words were, concluded that
Jennie wished to be alone, and she went away.

Still Jennie stood there, and now, as the real significance of the
news began to formulate itself into consecutive thought, she began to
realize the wretchedness of her position, its helplessness. She went
into her bedroom and sat down upon the side of the bed, from which
position she saw a very pale, distraught face staring at her from out
of the small mirror. She looked at it uncertainly; could that really
be her own countenance? "I'll have to go away," she thought, and
began, with the courage of despair, to wonder what refuge would be
open to her.

In the mean time the evening meal was announced, and, to maintain
appearances, she went out and joined the family; the naturalness of
her part was very difficult to sustain. Gerhardt observed her subdued
condition without guessing the depth of emotion which it covered. Bass
was too much interested in his own affairs to pay particular attention
to anybody.

During the days that followed Jennie pondered over the difficulties
of her position and wondered what she should do. Money she had, it was
true; but no friends, no experience, no place to go. She had always
lived with her family. She began to feel unaccountable sinkings of
spirit, nameless and formless fears seemed to surround and haunt her.
Once when she arose in the morning she felt an uncontrollable desire
to cry, and frequently thereafter this feeling would seize upon her at
the most inopportune times. Mrs. Gerhardt began to note her moods, and
one afternoon she resolved to question her daughter.

"Now you must tell me what's the matter with you," she said
quietly. "Jennie, you must tell your mother everything."

Jennie, to whom confession had seemed impossible, under the
sympathetic persistence of her mother broke down at last and made the
fatal confession. Mrs. Gerhardt stood there, too dumb with misery to
give vent to a word.

"Oh!" she said at last, a great wave of self-accusation sweeping
over her, "it is all my fault. I might have known. But we'll do what
we can." She broke down and sobbed aloud.

After a time she went back to the washing she had to do, and stood
over her tub rubbing and crying. The tears ran down her cheeks and
dropped into the suds. Once in a while she stopped and tried to dry
her eyes with her apron, but they soon filled again.

Now that the first shock had passed, there came the vivid
consciousness of ever-present danger. What would Gerhardt do if he
learned the truth? He had often said that if ever one of his daughters
should act like some of those he knew he would turn her out of doors.
"She should not stay under my roof!" he had exclaimed.

"I'm so afraid of your father," Mrs. Gerhardt often said to Jennie
in this intermediate period. "I don't know what he'll say."

"Perhaps I'd better go away," suggested her daughter.

"No," she said; "he needn't know just yet. Wait awhile." But in her
heart of hearts she knew that the evil day could not be long
postponed.

One day, when her own suspense had reached such a pitch that it
could no longer be endured, Mrs. Gerhardt sent Jennie away with the
children, hoping to be able to tell her husband before they returned.
All the morning she fidgeted about, dreading the opportune moment and
letting him retire to his slumber without speaking. When afternoon
came she did not go out to work, because she could not leave with her
painful duty unfulfilled. Gerhardt arose at four, and still she
hesitated, knowing full well that Jennie would soon return and that
the specially prepared occasion would then be lost. It is almost
certain that she would not have had the courage to say anything if he
himself had not brought up the subject of Jennie's appearance.

"She doesn't look well," he said. "There seems to be something the
matter with her."

"Oh," began Mrs. Gerhardt, visibly struggling with her fears, and
moved to make an end of it at any cost, "Jennie is in trouble. I don't
know what to do. She--"

Gerhardt, who had unscrewed a door-lock and was trying to mend it,
looked up sharply from his work.

"What do you mean?" he asked.

Mrs. Gerhardt had her apron in her hands at the time, her nervous
tendency to roll it coming upon her. She tried to summon sufficient
courage to explain, but fear mastered her completely; she lifted the
apron to her eyes and began to cry.

Gerhardt looked at her and rose. He was a man with the Calvin type
of face, rather spare, with skin sallow and discolored as the result
of age and work in the wind and rain. When he was surprised or angry
sparks of light glittered in his eyes. He frequently pushed his hair
back when he was troubled, and almost invariably walked the floor;
just now he looked alert and dangerous.

"What is that you say?" he inquired in German, his voice straining
to a hard note. "In trouble--has some one--" He paused and
flung his hand upward. "Why don't you speak?" he demanded.

"I never thought," went on Mrs. Gerhardt, frightened, and yet
following her own train of thought, "that anything like that would
happen to her. She was such a good girl. Oh!" she concluded, "to think
he should ruin Jennie."

"By thunder!" shouted Gerhardt, giving way to a fury of feeling, "I
thought so! Brander! Ha! Your fine man! That comes of letting her go
running around at nights, buggy-riding, walking the streets. I thought
so. God in heaven!--"

He broke from his dramatic attitude and struck out in a fierce
stride across the narrow chamber, turning like a caged animal.

"Ruined!" he exclaimed. "Ruined! Ha! So he has ruined her, has
he?"

Suddenly he stopped like an image jerked by a string. He was
directly in front of Mrs. Gerhardt, who had retired to the table at
the side of the wall, and was standing there pale with fear.

"He is dead now!" he shouted, as if this fact had now first
occurred to him. "He is dead!"

He put both hands to his temples, as if he feared his brain would
give way, and stood looking at her, the mocking irony of the situation
seeming to burn in his brain like fire.

"Dead!" he repeated, and Mrs. Gerhardt, fearing for the reason of
the man, shrank still farther away, her wits taken up rather with the
tragedy of the figure he presented than with the actual substance of
his woe.

"He intended to marry her," she pleaded nervously. "He would have
married her if he had not died."

"Would have!" shouted Gerhardt, coming out of his trance at the
sound of her voice. "Would have! That's a fine thing to talk about
now. Would have! The hound! May his soul burn in hell--the dog!
Ah, God, I hope--I hope--If I were not a Christian--" He clenched
his hands, the awfulness of his passion shaking him like a leaf.

Mrs. Gerhardt burst into tears, and her husband turned away, his
own feelings far too intense for him to have any sympathy with her. He
walked to and fro, his heavy step shaking the kitchen floor. After a
time he came back, a new phase of the dread calamity having offered
itself to his mind.

"When did this happen?" he demanded

"I don't know," returned Mrs. Gerhardt, too terror-stricken to tell
the truth. "I only found it out the other day."

"You lie!" he exclaimed in his excitement. "You were always
shielding her. It is your fault that she is where she is. If you had
let me have my way there would have been no cause for our trouble
to-night.

"A fine ending," he went on to himself. "A fine ending. My boy gets
into jail; my daughter walks the streets and gets herself talked
about; the neighbors come to me with open remarks about my children;
and now this scoundrel ruins her. By the God in heaven, I don't know
what has got into my children!

"I don't know how it is," he went on, unconsciously commiserating
himself. "I try, I try! Every night I pray that the Lord will let me
do right, but it is no use. I might work and work. My hands--look
at them--are rough with work. All my life I have tried to be an
honest man. Now--now--" His voice broke, and it seemed for a
moment as if he would give way to tears. Suddenly he turned on his
wife, the major passion of anger possessing him.

"You are the cause of this," he exclaimed. "You are the sole cause.
If you had done as I told you to do this would not have happened. No,
you wouldn't do that. She must go out! out!! out!!! She has become a
street-walker, that's what she has become. She has set herself right
to go to hell. Let her go. I wash my hands of the whole thing. This is
enough for me."

He made as if to go off to his little bedroom, but he had no sooner
reached the door than he came back.

"She shall get out!" he said electrically. "She shall not stay
under my roof! To-night! At once! I will not let her enter my door
again. I will show her whether she will disgrace me or not!"

"You mustn't turn her out on the streets to-night," pleaded Mrs.
Gerhardt. "She has no place to go."

"To-night!" he repeated. "This very minute! Let her find a home.
She did not want this one. Let her get out now. We will see how the
world treats her." He walked out of the room, inflexible resolution
fixed upon his rugged features.

At half-past five, when Mrs. Gerhardt was tearfully going about the
duty of getting supper, Jennie returned. Her mother started when she
heard the door open, for now she knew the storm would burst afresh.
Her father met her on the threshold.

"Get out of my sight!" he said savagely. "You shall not stay
another hour in my house. I don't want to see you any more. Get
out!"

Jennie stood before him, pale, trembling a little, and silent. The
children she had brought home with her crowded about in frightened
amazement. Veronica and Martha, who loved her dearly, began to
cry.

"What's the matter?" George asked, his mouth open in wonder.

"She shall get out," reiterated Gerhardt. "I don't want her under
my roof. If she wants to be a street-walker, let her be one, but she
shall not stay here. Pack your things," he added, staring at her.

Jennie had no word to say, but the children cried loudly.

"Be still," said Gerhardt. "Go into the kitchen."

He drove them all out and followed stubbornly himself.

Jennie went quietly to her room. She gathered up her few little
belongings and began, with tears, to put them into a valise her mother
brought her. The little girlish trinkets that she had accumulated from
time to time she did not take. She saw them, but thought of her
younger sisters, and let them stay. Martha and Veronica would have
assisted her, but their father forbade them to go.

At six o'clock Bass came in, and seeing the nervous assembly in the
kitchen, inquired what the trouble was.

Gerhardt looked at him grimly, but did not answer.

"What's the trouble?" insisted Bass. "What are you all sitting
around for?"

"He is driving Jennie away," whispered Mrs. Gerhardt tearfully.

"What for?" asked Bass, opening his eyes in astonishment.

"I shall tell you what for," broke in Gerhardt, still speaking in
German. "Because she's a street-walker, that's what for. She goes and
gets herself ruined by a man thirty years older than she is, a man old
enough to be her father. Let her get out of this. She shall not stay
here another minute."

Bass looked about him, and the children opened their eyes. All felt
clearly that something terrible had happened, even the little ones.
None but Bass understood.

"What do you want to send her out to-night for?" he inquired. "This
is no time to send a girl out on the streets. Can't she stay here
until morning?"

"No," said Gerhardt.

"He oughtn't to do that," put in the mother.

"She goes now," said Gerhardt. "Let that be an end of it."

"Where is she going to go?" insisted Bass.

"I don't know," Mrs. Gerhardt interpolated weakly.

Bass looked around, but did nothing until Mrs. Gerhardt motioned
him toward the front door when her husband was not looking.

"Go in! Go in!" was the import of her gesture.

Bass went in, and then Mrs. Gerhardt dared to leave her work and
follow. The children stayed awhile, but, one by one, even they slipped
away, leaving Gerhardt alone. When he thought that time enough had
elapsed he arose.

In the interval Jennie had been hastily coached by her mother.

Jennie should go to a private boarding-house somewhere, and send
back her address. Bass should not accompany her, but she should wait a
little way up the street, and he would follow. When her father was
away the mother might get to see her, or Jennie could come home. All
else must be postponed until they could meet again.

While the discussion was still going on, Gerhardt came in.

"Is she going?" he asked harshly.

"Yes," answered Mrs. Gerhardt, with her first and only note of
defiance.

Bass said, "What's the hurry?" But Gerhardt frowned too mightily
for him to venture on any further remonstrance.

Jennie entered, wearing her one good dress and carrying her valise.
There was fear in her eyes, for she was passing through a fiery
ordeal, but she had become a woman. The strength of love was with her,
the support of patience and the ruling sweetness of sacrifice.
Silently she kissed her mother, while tears fell fast. Then she
turned, and the door closed upon her as she went forth to a new
life.




CHAPTER X


The world into which Jennie was thus unduly thrust forth was that
in which virtue has always vainly struggled since time immemorial; for
virtue is the wishing well and the doing well unto others. Virtue is
that quality of generosity which offers itself willingly for another's
service, and, being this, it is held by society to be nearly
worthless. Sell yourself cheaply and you shall be used lightly and
trampled under foot. Hold yourself dearly, however unworthily, and you
will be respected. Society, in the mass, lacks woefully in the matter
of discrimination. Its one criterion is the opinion of others. Its one
test that of self-preservation. Has he preserved his fortune? Has she
preserved her purity? Only in rare instances and with rare individuals
does there seem to be any guiding light from within.

Jennie had not sought to hold herself dear. Innate feeling in her
made for self-sacrifice. She could not be readily corrupted by the
world's selfish lessons on how to preserve oneself from the evil to
come.

It is in such supreme moments that growth is greatest. It comes as
with a vast surge, this feeling of strength and sufficiency. We may
still tremble, the fear of doing wretchedly may linger, but we grow.
Flashes of inspiration come to guide the soul. In nature there is no
outside. When we are cast from a group or a condition we have still
the companionship of all that is. Nature is not ungenerous. Its winds
and stars are fellows with you. Let the soul be but gentle and
receptive, and this vast truth will come home--not in set
phrases, perhaps, but as a feeling, a comfort, which, after all, is
the last essence of knowledge. In the universe peace is wisdom.

Jennie had hardly turned from the door when she was overtaken by
Bass. "Give me your grip," he said; and then seeing that she was dumb
with unutterable feeling, he added, "I think I know where I can get
you a room."

He led the way to the southern part of the city, where they were
not known, and up to the door of an old lady whose parlor clock had
been recently purchased from the instalment firm by whom he was now
employed. She was not well off, he knew, and had a room to rent.

"Is that room of yours still vacant?" he asked.

"Yes," she said, looking at Jennie.

"I wish you'd let my sister have it. We're moving away, and she
can't go yet."

The old lady expressed her willingness, and Jennie was soon
temporarily installed.

"Don't worry now," said Bass, who felt rather sorry for her.
"This'll blow over. Ma said I should tell you not to worry. Come up
to-morrow when he's gone."

Jennie said she would, and, after giving her further oral
encouragement, he arranged with the old lady about board, and took his
leave.

"It's all right now," he said encouragingly as he went out. "You'll
come out all right. Don't worry. I've got to go back, but I'll come
around in the morning."

He went away, and the bitter stress of it blew lightly over his
head, for he was thinking that Jennie had made a mistake. This was
shown by the manner in which he had asked her questions as they had
walked together, and that in the face of her sad and doubtful
mood.

"What'd you want to do that for?" and "Didn't you ever think what
you were doing?" he persisted.

"Please don't ask me to-night," Jennie had said, which put an end
to the sharpest form of his queries. She had no excuse to offer and no
complaint to make. If any blame attached, very likely it was hers. His
own misfortune and the family's and her sacrifice were alike
forgotten.

Left alone in her strange abode, Jennie gave way to her saddened
feelings. The shock and shame of being banished from her home overcame
her, and she wept. Although of a naturally long-suffering and
uncomplaining disposition, the catastrophic wind-up of all her hopes
was too much for her. What was this element in life that could seize
and overwhelm one as does a great wind? Why this sudden intrusion of
death to shatter all that had seemed most promising in life?

As she thought over the past, a very clear recollection of the
details of her long relationship with Brander came back to her, and
for all her suffering she could only feel a loving affection for him.
After all, he had not deliberately willed her any harm. His kindness,
his generosity--these things had been real. He had been
essentially a good man, and she was sorry--more for his sake than
for her own that his end had been so untimely.

These cogitations, while not at all reassuring, at least served to
pass the night away, and the next morning Bass stopped on his way to
work to say that Mrs. Gerhardt wished her to come home that same
evening. Gerhardt would not be present, and they could talk it over.
She spent the day lonesomely enough, but when night fell her spirits
brightened, and at a quarter of eight she set out.

There was not much of comforting news to tell her. Gerhardt was
still in a direfully angry and outraged mood. He had already decided
to throw up his place on the following Saturday and go to Youngstown.
Any place was better than Columbus after this; he could never expect
to hold up his head here again. Its memories were odious. He would go
away now, and if he succeeded in finding work the family should
follow, a decision which meant the abandoning of the little home. He
was not going to try to meet the mortgage on the house--he could
not hope to.

At the end of the week Gerhardt took his leave, Jennie returned
home, and for a time at least there was a restoration of the old
order, a condition which, of course, could not endure.

Bass saw it. Jennie's trouble and its possible consequences weighed
upon him disagreeably. Columbus was no place to stay. Youngstown was
no place to go. If they should all move away to some larger city it
would be much better.

He pondered over the situation, and hearing that a manufacturing
boom was on in Cleveland, he thought it might be wise to try his luck
there. If he succeeded, the others might follow. If Gerhardt still
worked on in Youngstown, as he was now doing, and the family came to
Cleveland, it would save Jennie from being turned out in the
streets.

Bass waited a little while before making up his mind, but finally
announced his purpose.

"I believe I'll go up to Cleveland," he said to his mother one
evening as she was getting supper.

"Why?" she asked, looking up uncertainly. She was rather afraid
that Bass would desert her.

"I think I can get work there," he returned. "We oughtn't to stay
in this darned old town."

"Don't swear," she returned reprovingly.

"Oh, I know," he said, "but it's enough to make any one swear.
We've never had anything but rotten luck here. I'm going to go, and
maybe if I get anything we can all move. We'd be better off if we'd
get some place where people don't know us. We can't be anything
here."

Mrs. Gerhardt listened with a strong hope for a betterment of their
miserable life creeping into her heart. If Bass would only do this. If
he would go and get work, and come to her rescue, as a strong bright
young son might, what a thing it would be! They were in the rapids of
a life which was moving toward a dreadful calamity. If only something
would happen.

"Do you think you could get something to do?" she asked
interestedly.

"I ought to," he said. "I've never looked for a place yet that I
didn't get it. Other fellows have gone up there and done all right.
Look at the Millers."

He shoved his hands into his pockets and looked out the window.

"Do you think you could get along until I try my hand up there?" he
asked.

"I guess we could," she replied. "Papa's at work now and we have
some money that, that--" she hesitated, to name the source, so
ashamed was she of their predicament.

"Yes, I know," said Bass, grimly.

"We won't have to pay any rent here before fall and then we'll have
to give it up anyhow," she added.

She was referring to the mortgage on the house, which fell due the
next September and which unquestionably could not be met. "If we could
move away from here before then, I guess we could get along."

"I'll do it," said Bass determinedly. "I'll go."

Accordingly, he threw up his place at the end of the month, and the
day after he left for Cleveland.




CHAPTER XI


The incidents of the days that followed, relating as they did
peculiarly to Jennie, were of an order which the morality of our day
has agreed to taboo.

Certain processes of the all-mother, the great artificing wisdom of
the power that works and weaves in silence and in darkness, when
viewed in the light of the established opinion of some of the little
individuals created by it, are considered very vile. We turn our faces
away from the creation of life as if that were the last thing that man
should dare to interest himself in, openly.

It is curious that a feeling of this sort should spring up in a
world whose very essence is generative, the vast process dual, and
where wind, water, soil, and light alike minister to the fruition of
that which is all that we are. Although the whole earth, not we alone,
is moved by passions hymeneal, and everything terrestrial has come
into being by the one common road, yet there is that ridiculous
tendency to close the eyes and turn away the head as if there were
something unclean in nature itself. "Conceived in iniquity and born in
sin," is the unnatural interpretation put upon the process by the
extreme religionist, and the world, by its silence, gives assent to a
judgment so marvelously warped.

Surely there is something radically wrong in this attitude. The
teachings of philosophy and the deductions of biology should find more
practical application in the daily reasoning of man. No process is
vile, no condition is unnatural. The accidental variation from a given
social practice does not necessarily entail sin. No poor little
earthling, caught in the enormous grip of chance, and so swerved from
the established customs of men, could possibly be guilty of that depth
of vileness which the attitude of the world would seem to predicate so
inevitably.

Jennie was now to witness the unjust interpretation of that wonder
of nature, which, but for Brander's death, might have been consecrated
and hallowed as one of the ideal functions of life. Although herself
unable to distinguish the separateness of this from every other normal
process of life, yet was she made to feel, by the actions of all about
her, that degradation was her portion and sin the foundation as well
as the condition of her state. Almost, not quite, it was sought to
extinguish the affection, the consideration, the care which,
afterward, the world would demand of her, for her child. Almost, not
quite, was the budding and essential love looked upon as evil.
Although her punishment was neither the gibbet nor the jail of a few
hundred years before, yet the ignorance and immobility of the human
beings about her made it impossible for them to see anything in her
present condition but a vile and premeditated infraction of the social
code, the punishment of which was ostracism. All she could do now was
to shun the scornful gaze of men, and to bear in silence the great
change that was coming upon her. Strangely enough, she felt no useless
remorse, no vain regrets. Her heart was pure, and she was conscious
that it was filled with peace. Sorrow there was, it is true, but only
a mellow phase of it, a vague uncertainty and wonder, which would
sometimes cause her eyes to fill with tears.

You have heard the wood-dove calling in the lone stillness of the
summertime; you have found the unheeded brooklet singing and babbling
where no ear comes to hear. Under dead leaves and snow-banks the
delicate arbutus unfolds its simple blossom, answering some heavenly
call for color. So, too, this other flower of womanhood.

Jennie was left alone, but, like the wood-dove, she was a voice of
sweetness in the summer-time. Going about her household duties, she
was content to wait, without a murmur, the fulfilment of that process
for which, after all, she was but the sacrificial implement. When her
duties were lightest she was content to sit in quiet meditation, the
marvel of life holding her as in a trance. When she was hardest
pressed to aid her mother, she would sometimes find herself quietly
singing, the pleasure of work lifting her out of herself. Always she
was content to face the future with a serene and unfaltering courage.
It is not so with all women. Nature is unkind in permitting the minor
type to bear a child at all. The larger natures in their maturity
welcome motherhood, see in it the immense possibilities of racial
fulfilment, and find joy and satisfaction in being the hand-maiden of
so immense a purpose.

Jennie, a child in years, was potentially a woman physically and
mentally, but not yet come into rounded conclusions as to life and her
place in it. The great situation which had forced her into this
anomalous position was from one point of view a tribute to her
individual capacity. It proved her courage, the largeness of her
sympathy, her willingness to sacrifice for what she considered a
worthy cause. That it resulted in an unexpected consequence, which
placed upon her a larger and more complicated burden, was due to the
fact that her sense of self-protection had not been commensurate with
her emotions. There were times when the prospective coming of the
child gave her a sense of fear and confusion, because she did not know
but that the child might eventually reproach her; but there was always
that saving sense of eternal justice in life which would not permit
her to be utterly crushed. To her way of thinking, people were not
intentionally cruel. Vague thoughts of sympathy and divine goodness
permeated her soul. Life at worst or best was beautiful--had
always been so.

These thoughts did not come to her all at once, but through the
months during which she watched and waited. It was a wonderful thing
to be a mother, even under these untoward conditions. She felt that
she would love this child, would be a good mother to it if life
permitted. That was the problem--what would life permit?

There were many things to be done--clothes to be made; certain
provisions of hygiene and diet to be observed. One of her fears was
that Gerhardt might unexpectedly return, but he did not. The old
family doctor who had nursed the various members of the Gerhardt
family through their multitudinous ailments--Doctor
Ellwanger--was taken into consultation, and he gave sound and
practical advice. Despite his Lutheran upbringing, the practice of
medicine in a large and kindly way had led him to the conclusion that
there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in our
philosophies and in our small neighborhood relationships. "So it is,"
he observed to Mrs. Gerhardt when she confided to him nervously what
the trouble was. "Well, you mustn't worry. These things happen in more
places than you think. If you knew as much about life as I do, and
about your neighbors, you would not cry. Your girl will be all right.
She is very healthy. She can go away somewhere afterward, and people
will never know. Why should you worry about what your neighbors think.
It is not so uncommon as you imagine."

Mrs. Gerhardt marveled. He was such a wise man. It gave her a
little courage. As for Jennie, she listened to his advice with
interest and without fear. She wanted things not so much for herself
as for her child, and she was anxious to do whatever she was told. The
doctor was curious to know who the father was; when informed he lifted
his eyes. "Indeed," he commented. "That ought to be a bright
baby."

There came the final hour when the child was ushered into the
world. It was Doctor Ellwanger who presided, assisted by the mother,
who, having brought forth six herself, knew exactly what to do. There
was no difficulty, and at the first cry of the new-born infant there
awakened in Jennie a tremendous yearning toward it. This was
her child! It was weak and feeble--a little girl, and it
needed her care. She took it to her breast, when it had been bathed
and swaddled, with a tremendous sense of satisfaction and joy. This
was her child, her little girl. She wanted to live to be able to work
for it, and rejoiced, even in her weakness, that she was so strong.
Doctor Ellwanger predicted a quick recovery. He thought two weeks
would be the outside limit of her need to stay in bed. As a matter of
fact, in ten days she was up and about, as vigorous and healthy as
ever. She had been born with strength and with that nurturing quality
which makes the ideal mother.

The great crisis had passed, and now life went on much as before.
The children, outside of Bass, were too young to understand fully, and
had been deceived by the story that Jennie was married to Senator
Brander, who had died. They did not know that a child was coming until
it was there. The neighbors were feared by Mrs. Gerhardt, for they
were ever watchful and really knew all. Jennie would never have braved
this local atmosphere except for the advice of Bass, who, having
secured a place in Cleveland some time before, had written that he
thought when she was well enough it would be advisable for the whole
family to seek a new start in Cleveland. Things were flourishing
there. Once away they would never hear of their present neighbors and
Jennie could find something to do. So she stayed at home.




CHAPTER XII


Bass was no sooner in Cleveland than the marvel of that growing
city was sufficient to completely restore his equanimity of soul and
to stir up new illusions as to the possibility of rehabilitation for
himself and his family. "If only they could come here," he thought.
"If only they could all get work and do right." Here was no evidence
of any of their recent troubles, no acquaintances who could suggest by
their mere presence the troubles of the past. All was business, all
activity. The very turning of the corner seemed to rid one of old
times and crimes. It was as if a new world existed in every block.

He soon found a place in a cigar store, and, after working a few
weeks, he began to write home the cheering ideas he had in mind.
Jennie ought to come as soon as she was able, and then, if she found
something to do, the others might follow. There was plenty of work for
girls of her age. She could live in the same house with him
temporarily; or maybe they could take one of the
fifteen-dollar-a-month cottages that were for rent. There were big
general furnishing houses, where one could buy everything needful for
a small house on very easy monthly terms. His mother could come and
keep house for them. They would be in a clean, new atmosphere, unknown
and untalked about. They could start life all over again; they could
be decent, honorable, prosperous.

Filled with this hope and the glamor which new scenes and new
environment invariably throw over the unsophisticated mind, he wrote a
final letter, in which he suggested that Jennie should come at once.
This was when the baby was six months old. There were theaters here,
he said, and beautiful streets. Vessels from the lakes came into the
heart of the city. It was a wonderful city, and growing very fast. It
was thus that the new life appealed to him.

The effect which all this had upon Mrs. Gerhardt, Jennie, and the
rest of the family was phenomenal. Mrs. Gerhardt, long weighed upon by
the misery which Jennie's error had entailed, was for taking measures
for carrying out this plan at once. So buoyant was her natural
temperament that she was completely carried away by the glory of
Cleveland, and already saw fulfilled therein not only her own desires
for a nice home, but the prosperous advancement of her children. "Of
course they could get work," she said. Bass was right. She had always
wanted Gerhardt to go to some large city, but he would not. Now it was
necessary, and they would go and become better off than they ever had
been.

And Gerhardt did take this view of the situation. In answer to his
wife's letter he wrote that it was not advisable for him to leave his
place, but if Bass saw a way for them, it might be a good thing to go.
He was the more ready to acquiesce in the plan for the simple reason
that he was half distracted with the worry of supporting the family
and of paying the debts already outstanding. Every week he laid by
five dollars out of his salary, which he sent in the form of a postal
order to Mrs. Gerhardt. Three dollars he paid for board, and fifty
cents he kept for spending money, church dues, a little tobacco and
occasionally a glass of beer. Every week he put a dollar and a half in
a little iron bank against a rainy day. His room was a bare corner in
the topmost loft of the mill. To this he would ascend after sitting
alone on the doorstep of the mill in this lonely, foresaken
neighborhood, until nine o'clock of an evening; and here, amid the
odor of machinery wafted up from the floor below, by the light of a
single tallow candle, he would conclude his solitary day, reading his
German paper, folding his hands and thinking, kneeling by an open
window in the shadow of the night to say his prayers, and silently
stretching himself to rest. Long were the days, dreary the prospect.
Still he lifted his hands in utmost faith to God, praying that his
sins might be forgiven and that he might be vouchsafed a few more
years of comfort and of happy family life.

So the momentous question was finally decided. There was the
greatest longing and impatience among the children, and Mrs. Gerhardt
shared their emotions in a suppressed way. Jennie was to go first, as
Bass had suggested; later on they would all follow.

When the hour came for Jennie's departure there was great
excitement in the household.

"How long you going to be 'fore you send for us?" was Martha's
inquiry, several times repeated.

"Tell Bass to hurry up," said the eager George.

"I want to go to Cleveland, I want to go to Cleveland," Veronica
was caught singing to herself.

"Listen to her," exclaimed George, sarcastically.

"Aw, you hush up," was her displeased rejoinder.

When the final hour came, however, it required all of Jennie's
strength to go through with the farewells. Though everything was being
done in order to bring them together again under better conditions,
she could not help feeling depressed. Her little one, now six months
old, was being left behind. The great world was to her one
undiscovered bourne. It frightened her.

"You mustn't worry, Ma," she found courage enough to say. "I'll be
all right. I'll write you just as soon as I get there. It won't be so
very long."

But when it came to bending over her baby for the last time her
courage went out like a blown lamp. Stooping over the cradle in which
the little one was resting, she looked into its face with passionate,
motherly yearning.

"Is it going to be a good little girl?" she cooed.

Then she caught it up into her arms, and hugging it closely to her
neck and bosom, she buried her face against its little body. Mrs.
Gerhardt saw that she was trembling.

"Come now," she said, coaxingly, "you mustn't carry on so. She will
be all right with me. I'll take care of her. If you're going to act
this way, you'd better not try to go at all."

Jennie lifted her head, her blue eyes wet with tears, and handed
the little one to her mother.

"I can't help it," she said, half crying, half smiling.

Quickly she kissed her mother and the children; then she hurried
out.

As she went down the street with George she looked back and bravely
waved her hand. Mrs. Gerhardt responded, noticing how much more like a
woman she looked. It had been necessary to invest some of her money in
new clothes to wear on the train. She had selected a neat, ready-made
suit of brown, which fitted her nicely. She wore the skirt of this
with a white shirt-waist, and a sailor hat with a white veil wound
around it in such fashion that it could be easily drawn over her face.
As she went farther and farther away Mrs. Gerhardt followed her
lovingly with her glance; and when she disappeared from view she said
tenderly, through her own tears:

"I'm glad she looked so nice, anyhow."




CHAPTER XIII


Bass met Jennie at the depot in Cleveland and talked hopefully of
the prospects. "The first thing is to get work," he began, while the
jingling sounds and the changing odors which the city thrust upon her
were confusing and almost benumbing her senses. "Get something to do.
It doesn't matter what, so long as you get something. If you don't get
more than three or four dollars a week, it will pay the rent. Then,
with what George can earn, when he comes, and what Pop sends, we can
get along all right. It'll be better than being down in that hole," he
concluded.

"Yes," said Jennie, vaguely, her mind so hypnotized by the new
display of life about her that she could not bring it forcibly to bear
upon the topic under discussion. "I know what you mean. I'll get
something."

She was much older now, in understanding if not in years. The
ordeal through which she had so recently passed had aroused in her a
clearer conception of the responsibilities of life. Her mother was
always in her mind, her mother and the children. In particular Martha
and Veronica must have a better opportunity to do for themselves than
she had had. They should be dressed better; they ought to be kept
longer in school; they must have more companionship, more opportunity
to broaden their lives.

Cleveland, like every other growing city at this time, was crowded
with those who were seeking employment. New enterprises were
constantly springing up, but those who were seeking to fulfil the
duties they provided were invariably in excess of the demand. A
stranger coming to the city might walk into a small position of almost
any kind on the very day he arrived; and he might as readily wander in
search of employment for weeks and even months. Bass suggested the
shops and department stores as a first field in which to inquire. The
factories and other avenues of employment were to be her second
choice.

"Don't pass a place, though," he had cautioned her, "if you think
there's any chance of getting anything to do. Go right in."

"What must I say?" asked Jennie, nervously.

"Tell them you want work. You don't care what you do to begin
with."

In compliance with this advice, Jennie set out the very first day,
and was rewarded by some very chilly experiences. Wherever she went,
no one seemed to want any help. She applied at the stores, the
factories, the little shops that lined the outlying thoroughfares, but
was always met by a rebuff. As a last resource she turned to
housework, although she had hoped to avoid that; and, studying the
want columns, she selected four which seemed more promising than the
others. To these she decided to apply. One had already been filled
when she arrived, but the lady who came to the door was so taken by
her appearance that she invited her in and questioned her as to her
ability.

"I wish you had come a little earlier," she said. "I like you
better than I do the girl I have taken. Leave me your address,
anyhow."

Jennie went away, smiling at her reception. She was not quite so
youthful looking as she had been before her recent trouble, but the
thinner cheeks and the slightly deeper eyes added to the pensiveness
and delicacy of her countenance. She was a model of neatness. Her
clothes, all newly cleaned and ironed before leaving home, gave her a
fresh and inviting appearance. There was growth coming to her in the
matter of height, but already in appearance and intelligence she
looked to be a young woman of twenty. Best of all, she was of that
naturally sunny disposition, which, in spite of toil and privation,
kept her always cheerful. Any one in need of a servant-girl or house
companion would have been delighted to have had her.

The second place at which she applied was a large residence in
Euclid Avenue; it seemed far too imposing for anything she might have
to offer in the way of services, but having come so far she decided to
make the attempt. The servant who met her at the door directed her to
wait a few moments, and finally ushered her into the boudoir of the
mistress of the house on the second floor. The latter, a Mrs.
Bracebridge, a prepossessing brunette of the conventionally
fashionable type, had a keen eye for feminine values and was impressed
rather favorably with Jennie. She talked with her a little while, and
finally decided to try her in the general capacity of maid.

"I will give you four dollars a week, and you can sleep here if you
wish," said Mrs. Bracebridge.

Jennie explained that she was living with her brother, and would
soon have her family with her.

"Oh, very well," replied her mistress. "Do as you like about that.
Only I expect you to be here promptly."

She wished her to remain for the day and to begin her duties at
once, and Jennie agreed. Mrs. Bracebridge provided her a dainty cap
and apron, and then spent some little time in instructing her in her
duties. Her principal work would be to wait on her mistress, to brush
her hair and to help her dress. She was also to answer the bell, wait
on the table if need be, and do any other errand which her mistress
might indicate. Mrs. Bracebridge seemed a little hard and formal to
her prospective servant, but for all that Jennie admired the dash and
go and the obvious executive capacity of her employer.

At eight o'clock that evening Jennie was dismissed for the day. She
wondered if she could be of any use in such a household, and marveled
that she had got along as well as she had. Her mistress had set her to
cleaning her jewelry and boudoir ornaments as an opening task, and
though she had worked steadily and diligently, she had not finished by
the time she left. She hurried away to her brother's apartment,
delighted to be able to report that she had found a situation. Now her
mother could come to Cleveland. Now she could have her baby with her.
Now they could really begin that new life which was to be so much
better and finer and sweeter than anything they had ever had
before.

At Bass's suggestion Jennie wrote her mother to come at once, and a
week or so later a suitable house was found and rented. Mrs. Gerhardt,
with the aid of the children, packed up the simple belongings of the
family, including a single vanload of furniture, and at the end of a
fortnight they were on their way to the new home.

Mrs. Gerhardt always had had a keen desire for a really comfortable
home. Solid furniture, upholstered and trimmed, a thick, soft carpet
of some warm, pleasing color, plenty of chairs, settees, pictures, a
lounge, and a piano she had wanted these nice things all her life, but
her circumstances had never been good enough for her hopes to be
realized. Still she did not despair. Some day, maybe, before she died
these things would be added to her, and she would be happy. Perhaps
her chance was coming now.

Arrived at Cleveland, this feeling of optimism was encouraged by
the sight of Jennie's cheerful face. Bass assured her that they would
get along all right. He took them out to the house, and George was
shown the way to go back to the depot and have the freight looked
after. Mrs. Gerhardt had still fifty dollars left out of the money
which Senator Brander had sent to Jennie, and with this a way of
getting a little extra furniture on the instalment plan was provided.
Bass had already paid the first month's rent, and Jennie had spent her
evenings for the last few days in washing the windows and floors of
this new house and in getting it into a state of perfect cleanliness.
Now, when the first night fell, they had two new mattresses and
comfortables spread upon a clean floor; a new lamp, purchased from one
of the nearby stores, a single box, borrowed by Jennie from a grocery
store, for cleaning purposes, upon which Mrs. Gerhardt could sit, and
some sausages and bread to stay them until morning. They talked and
planned for the future until nine o'clock came, when all but Jennie
and her mother retired. These two talked on, the burden of
responsibilities resting on the daughter. Mrs. Gerhardt had come to
feel in a way dependent upon her.

In the course of a week the entire cottage was in order, with a
half-dozen pieces of new furniture, a new carpet, and some necessary
kitchen utensils. The most disturbing thing was the need of a new
cooking-stove, the cost of which added greatly to the bill. The
younger children were entered at the public school, but it was decided
that George must find some employment. Both Jennie and her mother felt
the injustice of this keenly, but knew no way of preventing the
sacrifice.

"We will let him go to school next year if we can," said
Jennie.

Auspiciously as the new life seemed to have begun, the closeness
with which their expenses were matching their income was an
ever-present menace. Bass, originally very generous in his
propositions, soon announced that he felt four dollars a week for his
room and board to be a sufficient contribution from himself. Jennie
gave everything she earned, and protested that she did not stand in
need of anything, so long as the baby was properly taken care of.
George secured a place as an overgrown cash-boy, and brought in two
dollars and fifty cents a week, all of which, at first, he gladly
contributed. Later on he was allowed the fifty cents for himself as
being meet and just. Gerhardt, from his lonely post of labor,
contributed five dollars by mail, always arguing that a little money
ought to be saved in order that his honest debts back in Columbus
might be paid. Out of this total income of fifteen dollars a week all
of these individuals had to be fed and clothed, the rent paid, coal
purchased, and the regular monthly instalment of three dollars paid on
the outstanding furniture bill of fifty dollars.

How it was done, those comfortable individuals, who frequently
discuss the social aspects of poverty, might well trouble to inform
themselves. Rent, coal, and light alone consumed the goodly sum of
twenty dollars a month; food, another unfortunately necessary item,
used up twenty-five more; clothes, instalments, dues, occasional items
of medicine and the like, were met out of the remaining eleven
dollars--how, the ardent imagination of the comfortable reader
can guess. It was done, however, and for a time the hopeful members
considered that they were doing fairly well.

During this period the little family presented a picture of
honorable and patient toil, which was interesting to contemplate.
Every day Mrs. Gerhardt, who worked like a servant and who received
absolutely no compensation either in clothes, amusements, or anything
else, arose in the morning while the others slept, and built the fire.
Then she took up the task of getting the breakfast. Often as she moved
about noiselessly in her thin, worn slippers, cushioned with pieces of
newspaper to make them fit, she looked in on Jennie, Bass, and George,
wrapped in their heavy slumbers, and with that divine sympathy which
is born in heaven she wished that they did not need to rise so early
or to work so hard. Sometimes she would pause before touching her
beloved Jennie, gaze at her white face, so calm in sleep, and lament
that life had not dealt more kindly with her. Then she would lay her
hand gently upon her shoulder and whisper, "Jennie, Jennie," until the
weary sleeper would wake.

When they arose breakfast was always ready. When they returned at
night supper was waiting. Each of the children received a due share of
Mrs. Gerhardt's attention. The little baby was closely looked after by
her. She protested that she needed neither clothes nor shoes so long
as one of the children would run errands for her.

Jennie, of all the children, fully understood her mother; she alone
strove, with the fullness of a perfect affection, to ease her
burden.

"Ma, you let me do this."

"Now, ma, I'll 'tend to that."

"You go sit down, ma."

These were the every-day expressions of the enduring affection that
existed between them. Always there was perfect understanding between
Jennie and her mother, and as the days passed this naturally widened
and deepened. Jennie could not bear to think of her as being always
confined to the house. Daily she thought as she worked of that humble
home where her mother was watching and waiting. How she longed to give
her those comforts which she had always craved!




CHAPTER XIV


The days spent in the employ of the Bracebridge household were of a
broadening character. This great house was a school to Jennie, not
only in the matter of dress and manners, but as formulating a theory
of existence. Mrs. Bracebridge and her husband were the last word in
the matter of self-sufficiency, taste in the matter of appointments,
care in the matter of dress, good form in the matter of reception,
entertainment, and the various usages of social life. Now and then,
apropos of nothing save her own mood, Mrs. Bracebridge would indicate
her philosophy of life in an epigram.

"Life is a battle, my dear. If you gain anything you will have to
fight for it."

"In my judgment it is silly not to take advantage of any aid which
will help you to be what you want to be." (This while applying a faint
suggestion of rouge.)

"Most people are born silly. They are exactly what they are capable
of being. I despise lack of taste; it is the worst crime."

Most of these worldly-wise counsels were not given directly to
Jennie. She overheard them, but to her quiet and reflective mind they
had their import. Like seeds fallen upon good ground, they took root
and grew. She began to get a faint perception of hierarchies and
powers. They were not for her, perhaps, but they were in the world,
and if fortune were kind one might better one's state. She worked on,
wondering, however, just how better fortune might come to her. Who
would have her to wife knowing her history? How could she ever explain
the existence of her child?

Her child, her child, the one transcendent, gripping theme of joy
and fear. If she could only do something for it--sometime,
somehow!

For the first winter things went smoothly enough. By the closest
economy the children were clothed and kept in school, the rent paid,
and the instalments met. Once it looked as though there might be some
difficulty about the continuance of the home life, and that was when
Gerhardt wrote that he would be home for Christmas. The mill was to
close down for a short period at that time. He was naturally anxious
to see what the new life of his family at Cleveland was like.

Mrs. Gerhardt would have welcomed his return with unalloyed
pleasure had it not been for the fear she entertained of his creating
a scene. Jennie talked it over with her mother, and Mrs. Gerhardt in
turn spoke of it to Bass, whose advice was to brave it out.

"Don't worry," he said; "he won't do anything about it. I'll talk
to him if he says anything."

The scene did occur, but it was not so unpleasant as Mrs. Gerhardt
had feared. Gerhardt came home during the afternoon, while Bass,
Jennie, and George were at work. Two of the younger children went to
the train to meet him. When he entered Mrs. Gerhardt greeted him
affectionately, but she trembled for the discovery which was sure to
come. Her suspense was not for long. Gerhardt opened the front bedroom
door only a few minutes after he arrived. On the white counterpane of
the bed was a pretty child, sleeping. He could not but know on the
instant whose it was, but he pretended ignorance.

"Whose child is that?" he questioned.

"It's Jennie's," said Mrs. Gerhardt, weakly.

"When did that come here?"

"Not so very long ago," answered the mother, nervously.

"I guess she is here, too," he declared, contemptuously, refusing
to pronounce her name, a fact which he had already anticipated.

"She's working in a family," returned his wife in a pleading tone.
"She's doing so well now. She had no place to go. Let her alone."

Gerhardt had received a light since he had been away. Certain
inexplicable thoughts and feelings had come to him in his religious
meditations. In his prayers he had admitted to the All-seeing that he
might have done differently by his daughter. Yet he could not make up
his mind how to treat her for the future. She had committed a great
sin; it was impossible to get away from that.

When Jennie came home that night a meeting was unavoidable.
Gerhardt saw her coming, and pretended to be deeply engaged in a
newspaper. Mrs. Gerhardt, who had begged him not to ignore Jennie
entirely, trembled for fear he would say or do something which would
hurt her feelings.

"She is coming now," she said, crossing to the door of the front
room, where he was sitting; but Gerhardt refused to look up. "Speak to
her, anyhow," was her last appeal before the door opened; but he made
no reply.

When Jennie came in her mother whispered, "He is in the front
room."

Jennie paled, put her thumb to her lip and stood irresolute, not
knowing how to meet the situation.

"Has he seen?"

Jennie paused as she realized from her mother's face and nod that
Gerhardt knew of the child's existence.

"Go ahead," said Mrs. Gerhardt; "it's all right. He won't say
anything."

Jennie finally went to the door, and, seeing her father, his brow
wrinkled as if in serious but not unkindly thought, she hesitated, but
made her way forward.

"Papa," she said, unable to formulate a definite sentence.

Gerhardt looked up, his grayish-brown eyes a study under their
heavy sandy lashes. At the sight of his daughter he weakened
internally; but with the self-adjusted armor of resolve about him he
showed no sign of pleasure at seeing her. All the forces of his
conventional understanding of morality and his naturally sympathetic
and fatherly disposition were battling within him, but, as in so many
cases where the average mind is concerned, convention was temporarily
the victor.

"Yes," he said.

"Won't you forgive me, Papa?"

"I do," he returned grimly.

She hesitated a moment, and then stepped forward, for what purpose
he well understood.

"There," he said, pushing her gently away, as her lips barely
touched his grizzled cheek.

It had been a frigid meeting.

When Jennie went out into the kitchen after this very trying ordeal
she lifted her eyes to her waiting mother and tried to make it seem as
though all had been well, but her emotional disposition got the better
of her.

"Did he make up to you?" her mother was about to ask; but the words
were only half out of her mouth before her daughter sank down into one
of the chairs close to the kitchen table and, laying her head on her
arm, burst forth into soft, convulsive, inaudible sobs.

"Now, now," said Mrs. Gerhardt. "There now, don't cry. What did he
say?"

It was some time before Jennie recovered herself sufficiently to
answer. Her mother tried to treat the situation lightly.

"I wouldn't feel bad," she said. "He'll get over it. It's his
way."




CHAPTER XV


The return of Gerhardt brought forward the child question in all
its bearings. He could not help considering it from the standpoint of
a grandparent, particularly since it was a human being possessed of a
soul. He wondered if it had been baptized. Then he inquired.

"No, not yet," said his wife, who had not forgotten this duty, but
had been uncertain whether the little one would be welcome in the
faith.

"No, of course not," sneered Gerhardt, whose opinion of his wife's
religious devotion was not any too great. "Such carelessness! Such
irreligion! That is a fine thing."

He thought it over a few moments, and felt that this evil should be
corrected at once.

"It should be baptized," he said. "Why don't she take it and have
it baptized?"

Mrs. Gerhardt reminded him that some one would have to stand
godfather to the child, and there was no way to have the ceremony
performed without confessing the fact that it was without a legitimate
father.

Gerhardt listened to this, and it quieted him for a few moments,
but his religion was something which he could not see put in the
background by any such difficulty. How would the Lord look upon
quibbling like this? It was not Christian, and it was his duty to
attend to the matter. It must be taken, forthwith, to the church,
Jennie, himself, and his wife accompanying it as sponsors; or, if he
did not choose to condescend thus far to his daughter, he must see
that it was baptized when she was not present. He brooded over this
difficulty, and finally decided that the ceremony should take place on
one of these week-days between Christmas and New Year's, when Jennie
would be at her work. This proposal he broached to his wife, and,
receiving her approval, he made his next announcement. "It has no
name," he said.

Jennie and her mother had talked over this very matter, and Jennie
had expressed a preference for Vesta. Now her mother made bold to
suggest it as her own choice.

"How would Vesta do?"

Gerhardt heard this with indifference. Secretly he had settled the
question in his own mind. He had a name in store, left over from the
halcyon period of his youth, and never opportunely available in the
case of his own children--Wilhelmina. Of course he had no idea of
unbending in the least toward his small granddaughter. He merely liked
the name, and the child ought to be grateful to get it. With a
far-off, gingery air he brought forward this first offering upon the
altar of natural affection, for offering it was, after all.

"That is nice," he said, forgetting his indifference. "But how
would Wilhelmina do?"

Mrs. Gerhardt did not dare cross him when he was thus unconsciously
weakening. Her woman's tact came to the rescue.

"We might give her both names," she compromised.

"It makes no difference to me," he replied, drawing back into the
shell of opposition from which he had been inadvertently drawn. "Just
so she is baptized."

Jennie heard of this with pleasure, for she was anxious that the
child should have every advantage, religious or otherwise, that it was
possible to obtain. She took great pains to starch and iron the
clothes it was to wear on the appointed day.

Gerhardt sought out the minister of the nearest Lutheran church, a
round-headed, thick-set theologian of the most formal type, to whom he
stated his errand.

"Your grandchild?" inquired the minister.

"Yes," said Gerhardt, "her father is not here."

"So," replied the minister, looking at him curiously.

Gerhardt was not to be disturbed in his purpose. He explained that
he and his wife would bring her. The minister, realizing the probable
difficulty, did not question him further.

"The church cannot refuse to baptize her so long as you, as
grandparent, are willing to stand sponsor for her," he said.

Gerhardt came away, hurt by the shadow of disgrace in which he felt
himself involved, but satisfied that he had done his duty. Now he
would take the child and have it baptized, and when that was over his
present responsibility would cease.

When it came to the hour of the baptism, however, he found that
another influence was working to guide him into greater interest and
responsibility. The stern religion with which he was enraptured, its
insistence upon a higher law, was there, and he heard again the
precepts which had helped to bind him to his own children.

"Is it your intention to educate this child in the knowledge and
love of the gospel?" asked the black-gowned minister, as they stood
before him in the silent little church whither they had brought the
infant; he was reading from the form provided for such occasions.
Gerhardt answered "Yes," and Mrs. Gerhardt added her affirmative.

"Do you engage to use all necessary care and diligence, by
prayerful instruction, admonition, example, and discipline that this
child may renounce and avoid everything that is evil and that she may
keep God's will and commandments as declared in His sacred word?"

A thought flashed through Gerhardt's mind as the words were uttered
of how it had fared with his own children. They, too, had been thus
sponsored. They too, had heard his solemn pledge to care for their
spiritual welfare. He was silent.

"We do," prompted the minister.

"We do," repeated Gerhardt and his wife weakly.

"Do you now dedicate this child by the rite of baptism unto the
Lord, who brought it?"

"We do."

"And, finally, if you can conscientiously declare before God that
the faith to which you have assented is your faith, and that the
solemn promises you have made are the serious resolutions of your
heart, please to announce the same in the presence of God, by saying
'Yes.'"

"Yes," they replied.

"I baptize thee, Wilhelmina Vesta," concluded the minister,
stretching out his hand over her, "in the name of the Father and of
the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Let us pray."

Gerhardt bent his gray head and followed with humble reverence the
beautiful invocation which followed:

"Almighty and everlasting God! we adore Thee as the great Parent of
the children of men, as the Father of our spirits and the Former of
our bodies. We praise Thee for giving existence to this infant and for
preserving her until this day. We bless Thee that she is called to
virtue and glory, that she has now been dedicated to Thee, and brought
within-the pale of the Christian Church. We thank Thee that by the
Gospel of the Son she is furnished with everything necessary to her
spiritual happiness; that it supplies light for her mind and comfort
for her heart, encouragement and power to discharge her duty, and the
precious hope of mercy and immortality to sustain and make her
faithful. And we beseech Thee, O most merciful God, that this child
may be enlightened and sanctified from her early years by the Holy
Spirit, and be everlastingly saved by Thy mercy. Direct and bless Thy
servants who are intrusted with the care of her in the momentous work
of her education. Inspire them with just conception of the absolute
necessity of religious instruction and principles. Forbid that they
should ever forget that this offspring belongs to Thee, and that, if
through their criminal neglect or bad example Thy reasonable creature
be lost, Thou wilt require it at their hands. Give them a deep sense
of the divinity of her nature, of the worth of her soul, of the
dangers to which she will be exposed, of the honor and felicity to
which she is capable of ascending with Thy blessing, and of the ruin
in this world and the misery in the world to come which springs from
wicked passion and conduct. Give them grace to check the first risings
of forbidden inclinations in her breast, to be her defense against the
temptations incident to childhood and youth, and, as she grows up, to
enlarge her understanding and to lead her to an acquaintance with Thee
and with Jesus Christ, whom Thou hast sent. Give them grace to
cultivate in her heart a supreme reverence and love for Thee, a
grateful attachment to the Gospel of Thy Son, her Saviour, a due
regard for all its ordinances and institutions, a temper of kindness
and goodwill to all mankind, and an invincible love of sincerity and
truth. Help them to watch continually over her with tender solicitude,
to be studious, that by their conversation and deportment her heart
may not be corrupted, and at all times to set before her such an
example that she may safely tread in their footsteps. If it please
Thee to prolong her days on earth, grant that she may prove an honor
and a comfort to her parents and friends, be useful in the world, and
find in Thy Providence an unfailing defense and support. Whether she
live, let her live to Thee; or whether she die, let her die to Thee.
And, at the great day of account, may she and her parents meet each
other with rapture and rejoice together in Thy redeeming love, through
Jesus Christ, forever and ever, Amen."

As this solemn admonition was read a feeling of obligation
descended upon the grandfather of this little outcast; a feeling that
he was bound to give the tiny creature lying on his wife's arm the
care and attention which God in His sacrament had commanded. He bowed
his head in utmost reverence, and when the service was concluded and
they left the silent church he was without words to express his
feelings. Religion was a consuming thing with him. God was a person, a
dominant reality. Religion was not a thing of mere words or of
interesting ideas to be listened to on Sunday, but a strong, vital
expression of the Divine Will handed down from a time when men were in
personal contact with God. Its fulfilment was a matter of joy and
salvation with him, the one consolation of a creature sent to wander
in a vale whose explanation was not here but in heaven. Slowly
Gerhardt walked on, and as he brooded on the words and the duties
which the sacrament involved the shade of lingering disgust that had
possessed him when he had taken the child to church disappeared and a
feeling of natural affection took its place. However much the daughter
had sinned, the infant was not to blame. It was a helpless, puling,
tender thing, demanding his sympathy and his love. Gerhardt felt his
heart go out to the little child, and yet he could not yield his
position all in a moment.

"That is a nice man," he said of the minister to his wife as they
walked along, rapidly softening in his conception of his duty.

"Yes, he was," agreed Mrs. Gerhardt timidly.

"It's a good-sized little church," he continued.

"Yes."

Gerhardt looked around him, at the street, the houses, the show of
brisk life on this sunshiny, winter's day, and then finally at the
child that his wife was carrying.

"She must be heavy," he said, in his characteristic German. "Let me
take her."

Mrs. Gerhardt, who was rather weary, did not refuse.

"There!" he said, as he looked at her and then fixed her
comfortably upon his shoulder. "Let us hope she proves worthy of all
that has been done to-day."

Mrs. Gerhardt listened, and the meaning in his voice interpreted
itself plainly enough. The presence of the child in the house might be
the cause of recurring spells of depression and unkind words, but
there would be another and greater influence restraining him. There
would always be her soul to consider. He would never again be utterly
unconscious of her soul.




CHAPTER XVI


During the remainder of Gerhardt's stay he was shy in Jennie's
presence and endeavored to act as though he were unconscious of her
existence. When the time came for parting he even went away without
bidding her good-by, telling his wife she might do that for him; but
after he was actually on his way back to Youngstown he regretted the
omission. "I might have bade her good-by," he thought to himself as
the train rumbled heavily along. But it was too late.

For the time being the affairs of the Gerhardt family drifted.
Jennie continued her work with Mrs. Bracebridge. Sebastian fixed
himself firmly in his clerkship in the cigar store. George was
promoted to the noble sum of three dollars, and then three-fifty. It
was a narrow, humdrum life the family led. Coal, groceries, shoes, and
clothing were the uppermost topics of their conversation; every one
felt the stress and strain of trying to make ends meet.

That which worried Jennie most, and there were many things which
weighed upon her sensitive soul, was the outcome of her own
life--not so much for herself as for her baby and the family. She
could not really see where she fitted in. "Who would have me?" she
asked herself over and over. "How was she to dispose of Vesta in the
event of a new love affair?" Such a contingency was quite possible.
She was young, good-looking, and men were inclined to flirt with her,
or rather to attempt it. The Bracebridges entertained many masculine
guests, and some of them had made unpleasant overtures to her.

"My dear, you're a very pretty girl," said one old rake of
fifty-odd when she knocked at his door one morning to give him a
message from his hostess.

"I beg your pardon," she said, confusedly, and colored.

"Indeed, you're quite sweet. And you needn't beg my pardon. I'd
like to talk to you some time."

He attempted to chuck her under the chin, but Jennie hurried away.
She would have reported the matter to her mistress but a nervous shame
deterred her. "Why would men always be doing this?" she thought. Could
it be because there was something innately bad about her, an inward
corruption that attracted its like?

It is a curious characteristic of the non-defensive disposition
that it is like a honey-jar to flies. Nothing is brought to it and
much is taken away. Around a soft, yielding, unselfish disposition men
swarm naturally. They sense this generosity, this non-protective
attitude from afar. A girl like Jennie is like a comfortable fire to
the average masculine mind; they gravitate to it, seek its sympathy,
yearn to possess it. Hence she was annoyed by many unwelcome
attentions.

One day there arrived from Cincinnati a certain Lester Kane, the
son of a wholesale carriage builder of great trade distinction in that
city and elsewhere throughout the country, who was wont to visit this
house frequently in a social way. He was a friend of Mrs. Bracebridge
more than of her husband, for the former had been raised in Cincinnati
and as a girl had visited at his father's house. She knew his mother,
his brother and sisters and to all intents and purposes socially had
always been considered one of the family.

"Lester's coming to-morrow, Henry," Jennie heard Mrs. Bracebridge
tell her husband. "I had a wire from him this noon. He's such a scamp.
I'm going to give him the big east front room up-stairs. Be sociable
and pay him some attention. His father was so good to me."

"I know it," said her husband calmly. "I like Lester. He's the
biggest one in that family. But he's too indifferent. He doesn't care
enough."

"I know; but he's so nice. I do think he's one of the nicest men I
ever knew."

"I'll be decent to him. Don't I always do pretty well by your
people?"

"Yes, pretty well."

"Oh, I don't know about that," he replied, dryly.

When this notable person arrived Jennie was prepared to see some
one of more than ordinary importance, and she was not disappointed.
There came into the reception-hall to greet her mistress a man of
perhaps thirty-six years of age, above the medium in height,
clear-eyed, firm-jawed, athletic, direct, and vigorous. He had a deep,
resonant voice that carried clearly everywhere; people somehow used to
stop and listen whether they knew him or not. He was simple and abrupt
in his speech.

"Oh, there you are," he began. "I'm glad to see you again. How's
Mr. Bracebridge? How's Fannie?"

He asked his questions forcefully, whole-heartedly, and his hostess
answered with an equal warmth. "I'm glad to see you, Lester," she
said. "George will take your things up-stairs. Come up into my room.
It's more comfy. How are grandpa and Louise?"

He followed her up the stairs, and Jennie, who had been standing at
the head of the stairs listening, felt the magnetic charm of his
personality. It seemed, why she could hardly say, that a real
personage had arrived. The house was cheerier. The attitude of her
mistress was much more complaisant. Everybody seemed to feel that
something must be done for this man.

Jennie went about her work, but the impression persisted; his name
ran in her mind. Lester Kane. And he was from Cincinnati. She looked
at him now and then on the sly, and felt, for the first time in her
life, an interest in a man on his own account. He was so big, so
handsome, so forceful. She wondered what his business was. At the same
time she felt a little dread of him. Once she caught him looking at
her with a steady, incisive stare. She quailed inwardly, and took the
first opportunity to get out of his presence. Another time he tried to
address a few remarks to her, but she pretended that her duties called
her away. She knew that often his eyes were on her when her back was
turned, and it made her nervous. She wanted to run away from him,
although there was no very definite reason why she should do so.

As a matter of fact, this man, so superior to Jennie in wealth,
education, and social position, felt an instinctive interest in her
unusual personality. Like the others, he was attracted by the peculiar
softness of her disposition and her pre-eminent femininity. There was
that about her which suggested the luxury of love. He felt as if
somehow she could be reached why, he could not have said. She did not
bear any outward marks of her previous experience. There were no
evidences of coquetry about her, but still he "felt that he might." He
was inclined to make the venture on his first visit, but business
called him away; he left after four days and was absent from Cleveland
for three weeks. Jennie thought he was gone for good, and she
experienced a queer sense of relief as well as of regret. Then,
suddenly, he returned. He came apparently unexpectedly, explaining to
Mrs. Bracebridge that business interests again demanded his presence
in Cleveland. As he spoke he looked at Jennie sharply, and she felt as
if somehow his presence might also concern her a little.

On this second visit she had various opportunities of seeing him,
at breakfast, where she sometimes served, at dinner, when she could
see the guests at the table from the parlor or sitting-room, and at
odd times when he came to Mrs. Bracebridge's boudoir to talk things
over. They were very friendly.

"Why don't you settle down, Lester, and get married?" Jennie heard
her say to him the second day he was there. "You know it's time."

"I know," he replied, "but I'm in no mood for that. I want to
browse around a little while yet."

"Yes, I know about your browsing. You ought to be ashamed of
yourself. Your father is really worried."

He chuckled amusedly. "Father doesn't worry much about me. He has
got all he can attend to to look after the business."

Jennie looked at him curiously. She scarcely understood what she
was thinking, but this man drew her. If she had realized in what way
she would have fled his presence then and there.

Now he was more insistent in his observation of her--addressed
an occasional remark to her--engaged her in brief, magnetic
conversations. She could not help answering him--he was pleasing
to her. Once he came across her in the hall on the second floor
searching in a locker for some linen. They were all alone, Mrs.
Bracebridge having gone out to do some morning shopping and the other
servants being below stairs. On this occasion he made short work of
the business. He approached her in a commanding, unhesitating, and
thoroughly determined way.

"I want to talk to you," he said. "Where do you live?"

"I--I--" she stammered, and blanched perceptibly. "I live
out on Lorrie Street."

"What number?" he questioned, as though she were compelled to tell
him.

She quailed and shook inwardly. "Thirteen fourteen," she replied
mechanically.

He looked into her big, soft-blue eyes with his dark, vigorous
brown ones. A flash that was hypnotic, significant, insistent passed
between them.

"You belong to me," he said. "I've been looking for you. When can I
see you?"

"Oh, you mustn't," she said, her fingers going nervously to her
lips. "I can't see you--I--I--"

"Oh, I mustn't, mustn't I? Look here"--he took her arm and
drew her slightly closer--"you and I might as well understand
each other right now. I like you. Do you like me? Say?"

She looked at him, her eyes wide, filled with wonder, with fear,
with a growing terror.

"I don't know," she gasped, her lips dry.

"Do you?" He fixed her grimly, firmly with his eyes.

"I don't know."

"Look at me," he said.

"Yes," she replied.

He pulled her to him quickly. "I'll talk to you later," he said,
and put his lips masterfully to hers.

She was horrified, stunned, like a bird in the grasp of a cat; but
through it all something tremendously vital and insistent was speaking
to her. He released her with a short laugh. "We won't do any more of
this here, but, remember, you belong to me," he said, as he turned and
walked nonchalantly down the hall. Jennie, in sheer panic, ran to her
mistress's room and locked the door behind her.




CHAPTER XVII


The shock of this sudden encounter was so great to Jennie that she
was hours in recovering herself. At first she did not understand
clearly just what had happened. Out of clear sky, as it were, this
astonishing thing had taken place. She had yielded herself to another
man. Why? Why? she asked herself, and yet within her own consciousness
there was an answer. Though she could not explain her own emotions,
she belonged to him temperamentally and he belonged to her.

There is a fate in love and a fate in fight. This strong,
intellectual bear of a man, son of a wealthy manufacturer, stationed,
so far as material conditions were concerned, in a world immensely
superior to that in which Jennie moved, was, nevertheless,
instinctively, magnetically, and chemically drawn to this poor
serving-maid. She was his natural affinity, though he did not know
it--the one woman who answered somehow the biggest need of his
nature. Lester Kane had known all sorts of women, rich and poor, the
highly bred maidens of his own class, the daughters of the
proletariat, but he had never yet found one who seemed to combine for
him the traits of an ideal woman--sympathy, kindliness of
judgment, youth, and beauty. Yet this ideal remained fixedly seated in
the back of his brain--when the right woman appeared he intended
to take her. He had the notion that, for purposes of marriage, he
ought perhaps to find this woman on his own plane. For purposes of
temporary happiness he might take her from anywhere, leaving marriage,
of course, out of the question. He had no idea of making anything like
a serious proposal to a servant-girl. But Jennie was different. He had
never seen a servant quite like her. And she was lady-like and lovely
without appearing to know it. Why, this girl was a rare flower. Why
shouldn't he try to seize her? Let us be just to Lester Kane; let us
try to understand him and his position. Not every mind is to be
estimated by the weight of a single folly; not every personality is to
be judged by the drag of a single passion. We live in an age in which
the impact of materialized forces is well-nigh irresistible; the
spiritual nature is overwhelmed by the shock. The tremendous and
complicated development of our material civilization, the
multiplicity, and variety of our social forms, the depth, subtlety,
and sophistry of our imaginative impressions, gathered, remultiplied,
and disseminated by such agencies as the railroad, the express and the
post-office, the telephone, the telegraph, the newspaper, and, in
short, the whole machinery of social intercourse--these elements
of existence combine to produce what may be termed a kaleidoscopic
glitter, a dazzling and confusing phantasmagoria of life that wearies
and stultifies the mental and moral nature. It induces a sort of
intellectual fatigue through which we see the ranks of the victims of
insomnia, melancholia, and insanity constantly recruited. Our modern
brain-pan does not seem capable as yet of receiving, sorting, and
storing the vast army of facts and impressions which present
themselves daily. The white light of publicity is too white. We are
weighed upon by too many things. It is as if the wisdom of the
infinite were struggling to beat itself into finite and cup-big
minds.

Lester Kane was the natural product of these untoward conditions.
His was a naturally observing mind, Rabelaisian in its strength and
tendencies, but confused by the multiplicity of things, the vastness
of the panorama of life, the glitter of its details, the unsubstantial
nature of its forms, the uncertainty of their justification. Born a
Catholic, he was no longer a believer in the divine inspiration of
Catholicism; raised a member of the social elect, he had ceased to
accept the fetish that birth and station presuppose any innate
superiority; brought up as the heir to a comfortable fortune and
expected to marry in his own sphere, he was by no means sure that he
wanted marriage on any terms. Of course the conjugal state was an
institution. It was established. Yes, certainly. But what of it? The
whole nation believed in it. True, but other nations believed in
polygamy. There were other questions that bothered him--such
questions as the belief in a single deity or ruler of the universe,
and whether a republican, monarchial, or aristocratic form of
government were best. In short, the whole body of things material,
social, and spiritual had come under the knife of his mental surgery
and been left but half dissected. Life was not proved to him. Not a
single idea of his, unless it were the need of being honest, was
finally settled. In all other things he wavered, questioned,
procrastinated, leaving to time and to the powers back of the universe
the solution of the problems that vexed him. Yes, Lester Kane was the
natural product of a combination of elements--religious,
commercial, social--modified by that pervading atmosphere of
liberty in our national life which is productive of almost uncounted
freedom of thought and action. Thirty-six years of age, and apparently
a man of vigorous, aggressive, and sound personality, he was,
nevertheless, an essentially animal-man, pleasantly veneered by
education and environment. Like the hundreds of thousands of Irishmen
who in his father's day had worked on the railroad tracks, dug in the
mines, picked and shoveled in the ditches, and carried up bricks and
mortar on the endless structures of a new land, he was strong, hairy,
axiomatic, and witty.

"Do you want me to come back here next year?" he had asked of
Brother Ambrose, when, in his seventeenth year, that ecclesiastical
member was about to chastise him for some school-boy misdemeanor.

The other stared at him in astonishment. "Your father will have to
look after that," he replied.

"Well, my father won't look after it," Lester returned. "If you
touch me with that whip I'll take things into my own hands. I'm not
committing any punishable offenses, and I'm not going to be knocked
around any more."

Words, unfortunately, did not avail in this case, but a good,
vigorous Irish-American wrestle did, in which the whip was broken and
the discipline of the school so far impaired that he was compelled to
take his clothes and leave. After that he looked his father in the eye
and told him that he was not going to school any more.

"I'm perfectly willing to jump in and work," he explained. "There's
nothing in a classical education for me. Let me go into the office,
and I guess I'll pick up enough to carry me through."

Old Archibald Kane, keen, single-minded, of unsullied commercial
honor, admired his son's determination, and did not attempt to coerce
him.

"Come down to the office," he said; "perhaps there is something you
can do."

Entering upon a business life at the age of eighteen, Lester had
worked faithfully, rising in his father's estimation, until now he had
come to be, in a way, his personal representative. Whenever there was
a contract to be entered upon, an important move to be decided, or a
representative of the manufactory to be sent anywhere to consummate a
deal, Lester was the agent selected. His father trusted him
implicitly, and so diplomatic and earnest was he in the fulfilment of
his duties that this trust had never been impaired.

"Business is business," was a favorite axiom with him and the very
tone in which he pronounced the words was a reflex of his character
and personality.

There were molten forces in him, flames which burst forth now and
then in spite of the fact that he was sure that he had them under
control. One of these impulses was a taste for liquor, of which he was
perfectly sure he had the upper hand. He drank but very little, he
thought, and only, in a social way, among friends; never to excess.
Another weakness lay in his sensual nature; but here again he believed
that he was the master. If he chose to have irregular relations with
women, he was capable of deciding where the danger point lay. If men
were only guided by a sense of the brevity inherent in all such
relationships there would not be so many troublesome consequences
growing out of them. Finally, he flattered himself that he had a grasp
upon a right method of living, a method which was nothing more than a
quiet acceptance of social conditions as they were, tempered by a
little personal judgment as to the right and wrong of individual
conduct. Not to fuss and fume, not to cry out about anything, not to
be mawkishly sentimental; to be vigorous and sustain your personality
intact--such was his theory of life, and he was satisfied that it
was a good one.

As to Jennie, his original object in approaching her had been
purely selfish. But now that he had asserted his masculine
prerogatives, and she had yielded, at least in part, he began to
realize that she was no common girl, no toy of the passing hour.

There is a time in some men's lives when they unconsciously begin
to view feminine youth and beauty not so much in relation to the ideal
of happiness, but rather with regard to the social conventions by
which they are environed.

"Must it be?" they ask themselves, in speculating concerning the
possibility of taking a maiden to wife, "that I shall be compelled to
swallow the whole social code, make a covenant with society, sign a
pledge of abstinence, and give to another a life interest in all my
affairs, when I know too well that I am but taking to my arms a
variable creature like myself, whose wishes are apt to become
insistent and burdensome in proportion to the decrease of her beauty
and interest?" These are the men, who, unwilling to risk the manifold
contingencies of an authorized connection, are led to consider the
advantages of a less-binding union, a temporary companionship. They
seek to seize the happiness of life without paying the cost of their
indulgence. Later on, they think, the more definite and conventional
relationship may be established without reproach or the necessity of
radical readjustment.

Lester Kane was past the youthful love period, and he knew it. The
innocence and unsophistication of younger ideals had gone. He wanted
the comfort of feminine companionship, but he was more and more
disinclined to give up his personal liberty in order to obtain it. He
would not wear the social shackles if it were possible to satisfy the
needs of his heart and nature and still remain free and unfettered. Of
course he must find the right woman, and in Jennie he believed that he
had discovered her. She appealed to him on every side; he had never
known anybody quite like her. Marriage was not only impossible but
unnecessary. He had only to say "Come" and she must obey; it was her
destiny.

Lester thought the matter over calmly, dispassionately. He strolled
out to the shabby street where she lived; he looked at the humble roof
that sheltered her. Her poverty, her narrow and straitened environment
touched his heart. Ought he not to treat her generously, fairly,
honorably? Then the remembrance of her marvelous beauty swept over him
and changed his mood. No, he must possess her if he
could--to-day, quickly, as soon as possible. It was in that frame
of mind that he returned to Mrs. Bracebridge's home from his visit to
Lorrie Street.




CHAPTER XVIII


Jennie was now going through the agony of one who has a varied and
complicated problem to confront. Her baby, her father, her brothers,
and sisters all rose up to confront her. What was this thing that she
was doing? Was she allowing herself to slip into another wretched,
unsanctified relationship? How was she to explain to her family about
this man? He would not marry her, that was sure, if he knew all about
her. He would not marry her, anyhow, a man of his station and
position. Yet here she was parleying with him. What ought she to do?
She pondered over the problem until evening, deciding first that it
was best to run away, but remembering painfully that she had told him
where she lived. Then she resolved that she would summon up her
courage and refuse him--tell him she couldn't, wouldn't have
anything to do with him. This last solution of the difficulty seemed
simple enough--in his absence. And she would find work where he
could not follow her up so easily. It all seemed simple enough as she
put on her things in the evening to go home.

Her aggressive lover, however, was not without his own conclusion
in this matter. Since leaving Jennie he had thought concisely and to
the point. He came to the decision that he must act at once. She might
tell her family, she might tell Mrs. Bracebridge, she might leave the
city. He wanted to know more of the conditions which surrounded her,
and there was only one way to do that--talk to her. He must
persuade her to come and live with him. She would, he thought. She
admitted that she liked him. That soft, yielding note in her character
which had originally attracted him seemed to presage that he could win
her without much difficulty, if he wished to try. He decided to do so,
anyhow, for truly he desired her greatly.

At half-past five he returned to the Bracebridge home to see if she
were still there. At six he had an opportunity to say to her,
unobserved, "I am going to walk home with you. Wait for me at the next
corner, will you?"

"Yes," she said, a sense of compulsion to do his bidding seizing
her. She explained to herself afterward that she ought to talk to him,
that she must tell him finally of her decision not to see him again,
and this was as good an opportunity as any. At half-past six he left
the house on a pretext--a forgotten engagement--and a little
after seven he was waiting for her in a closed carriage near the
appointed spot. He was calm, absolutely satisfied as to the result,
and curiously elated beneath a sturdy, shock-proof exterior. It was as
if he breathed some fragrant perfume, soft, grateful, entrancing.

A few minutes after eight he saw Jennie coming along. The flare of
the gas-lamp was not strong, but it gave sufficient light for his eyes
to make her out. A wave of sympathy passed over him, for there was a
great appeal in her personality. He stepped out as she neared the
corner and confronted her. "Come," he said, "and get in this carriage
with me. I'll take you home."

"No," she replied. "I don't think I ought to."

"Come with me. I'll take you home. It's a better way to talk."

Once more that sense of dominance on his part, that power of
compulsion. She yielded, feeling all the time that she should not; he
called out to the cabman, "Anywhere for a little while." When she was
seated beside him he began at once.

"Listen to me, Jennie, I want you. Tell me something about
yourself."

"I have to talk to you," she replied, trying to stick to her
original line of defense.

"About what?" he inquired, seeking to fathom her expression in the
half light.

"I can't go on this way," she murmured nervously. "I can't act this
way. You don't know how it all is. I shouldn't have done what I did
this morning. I mustn't see you any more. Really I mustn't."

"You didn't do what you did this morning," he remarked,
paradoxically, seizing on that one particular expression. "I did that.
And as for seeing me any more, I'm going to see you." He seized her
hand. "You don't know me, but I like you. I'm crazy about you, that's
all. You belong to me. Now listen. I'm going to have you. Are you
going to come to me?"

"No, no, no!" she replied in an agonized voice, "I can't do
anything like that, Mr. Kane. Please listen to me. It can't be. You
don't know. Oh, you don't know. I can't do what you want. I don't want
to. I couldn't, even if I wanted to. You don't know how things are.
But I don't want to do anything wrong. I mustn't. I can't. I won't.
Oh, no! no!! no!!! Please let me go home."

He listened to this troubled, feverish outburst with sympathy, with
even a little pity.

"What do you mean by you can't?" he asked, curiously.

"Oh, I can't tell you," she replied. "Please don't ask me. You
oughtn't to know. But I mustn't see you any more. It won't do any
good."

"But you like me," he retorted.

"Oh yes, yes, I do. I can't help that. But you mustn't come near me
any more. Please don't."

He turned his proposition over in his mind with the solemnity of a
judge. He knew that this girl liked him--loved him really, brief
as their contact had been. And he was drawn to her, perhaps not
irrevocably, but with exceeding strength. What prevented her from
yielding, especially since she wanted to? He was curious.

"See here, Jennie," he replied. "I hear what you say. I don't know
what you mean by 'can't' if you want to. You say you like me. Why
can't you come to me? You're my sort. We will get along beautifully
together. You're suited to me temperamentally. I'd like to have you
with me. What makes you say you can't come?"

"I can't," she replied. "I can't. I don't want to. I oughtn't. Oh,
please don't ask me any more. You don't know. I can't tell you why."
She was thinking of her baby.

The man had a keen sense of justice and fair play. Above all things
he wanted to be decent in his treatment of people. In this case he
intended to be tender and considerate, and yet he must win her. He
turned this over in his mind.

"Listen to me," he said finally, still holding her hand. "I may not
want you to do anything immediately. I want you to think it over. But
you belong to me. You say you care for me. You admitted that this
morning. I know you do. Now why should you stand out against me? I
like you, and I can do a lot of things for you. Why not let us be good
friends now? Then we can talk the rest of this over later."

"But I mustn't do anything wrong," she insisted. "I don't want to.
Please don't come near me any more. I can't do what you want."

"Now, look here," he said. "You don't mean that. Why did you say
you liked me? Have you changed your mind? Look at me." (She had
lowered her eyes.) "Look at me! You haven't, have you?"

"Oh no, no, no," she half sobbed, swept by some force beyond her
control.

"Well, then, why stand out against me? I love you, I tell
you--I'm crazy about you. That's why I came back this time. It
was to see you!"

"Was it?" asked Jennie, surprised.

"Yes, it was. And I would have come again and again if necessary. I
tell you I'm crazy about you. I've got to have you. Now tell me you'll
come with me."

"No, no, no," she pleaded. "I can't. I must work. I want to work. I
don't want to do anything wrong. Please don't ask me. You mustn't. You
must let me go. Really you must. I can't do what you want."

"Tell me, Jennie," he said, changing the subject. "What does your
father do?"

"He's a glass-blower."

"Here in Cleveland?"

"No, he works in Youngstown."

"Is your mother alive?"

"Yes, sir."

"You live with her?"

"Yes, sir."

He smiled at the "sir." "Don't say 'sir' to me, sweet!" he pleaded
in his gruff way. "And don't insist on the Mr. Kane. I'm not 'mister'
to you any more. You belong to me, little girl, me." And he pulled her
close to him.

"Please don't, Mr. Kane," she pleaded. "Oh, please don't. I can't!
I can't! You mustn't."

But he sealed her lips with his own.

"Listen to me, Jennie," he repeated, using his favorite expression.
"I tell you you belong to me. I like you better every moment. I
haven't had a chance to know you. I'm not going to give you up. You've
got to come to me eventually. And I'm not going to have you working as
a lady's maid. You can't stay in that place except for a little while.
I'm going to take you somewhere else. And I'm going to leave you some
money, do you hear? You have to take it."

At the word money she quailed and withdrew her hand.

"No, no, no!" she repeated. "No, I won't take it."

"Yes, you will. Give it to your mother. I'm not trying to buy you.
I know what you think. But I'm not. I want to help you. I want to help
your family. I know where you live. I saw the place to-day. How many
are there of you?"

"Six," she answered faintly.

"The families of the poor," he thought.

"Well, you take this from me," he insisted, drawing a purse from
his coat. "And I'll see you very soon again. There's no escape,
sweet."

"No, no," she protested. "I won't. I don't need it. No, you mustn't
ask me."

He insisted further, but she was firm, and finally he put the money
away.

"One thing is sure, Jennie, you're not going to escape me," he said
soberly. "You'll have to come to me eventually. Don't you know you
will? Your own attitude shows that. I'm not going to leave you
alone."

"Oh, if you knew the trouble you're causing me."

"I'm not causing you any real trouble, am I?" he asked. "Surely
not."

"Yes. I can never do what you want."

"You will! You will!" he exclaimed eagerly, the bare thought of
this prize escaping him heightening his passion. "You'll come to me."
And he drew her close in spite of all her protests.

"There," he said when, after the struggle, that mystic something
between them spoke again, and she relaxed. Tears were in her eyes, but
he did not see them. "Don't you see how it is? You like me too."

"I can't," she repeated, with a sob.

Her evident distress touched him. "You're not crying, little girl,
are you?" he asked.

She made no answer.

"I'm sorry," he went on. "I'll not say anything more to-night.
We're almost at your home. I'm leaving to-morrow, but I'll see you
again. Yes, I will, sweet. I can't give you up now. I'll do anything
in reason to make it easy for you, but I can't, do you hear?"

She shook her head.

"Here's where you get out," he said, as the carriage drew up near
the corner. He could see the evening lamp gleaming behind the Gerhardt
cottage curtains.

"Good-by," he said as she stepped out.

"Good-by," she murmured.

"Remember," he said, "this is just the beginning."

"Oh no, no!" she pleaded.

He looked after her as she walked away.

"The beauty!" he exclaimed.

Jennie stepped into the house weary, discouraged, ashamed. What had
she done? There was no denying that she had compromised herself
irretrievably. He would come back.

He would come back. And he had offered her money. That was the
worst of all.




CHAPTER XIX


The inconclusive nature of this interview, exciting as it was, did
not leave any doubt in either Lester Kane's or Jennie's mind;
certainly this was not the end of the affair. Kane knew that he was
deeply fascinated. This girl was lovely. She was sweeter than he had
had any idea of. Her hesitancy, her repeated protests, her gentle "no,
no, no" moved him as music might. Depend upon it, this girl was for
him, and he would get her. She was too sweet to let go. What did he
care about what his family or the world might think?

It was curious that Kane held the well-founded idea that in time
Jennie would yield to him physically, as she had already done
spiritually. Just why he could not say. Something about her--a
warm womanhood, a guileless expression of countenance--intimated
a sympathy toward sex relationship which had nothing to do with hard,
brutal immorality. She was the kind of a woman who was made for a
man--one man. All her attitude toward sex was bound up with love,
tenderness, service. When the one man arrived she would love him and
she would go to him. That was Jennie as Lester understood her. He felt
it. She would yield to him because he was the one man.

On Jennie's part there was a great sense of complication and of
possible disaster. If he followed her of course he would learn all.
She had not told him about Brander, because she was still under the
vague illusion that, in the end, she might escape. When she left him
she knew that he would come back. She knew, in spite of herself that
she wanted him to do so. Yet she felt that she must not yield, she
must go on leading her straitened, humdrum life. This was her
punishment for having made a mistake. She had made her bed, and she
must lie on it.

The Kane family mansion at Cincinnati to which Lester returned
after leaving Jennie was an imposing establishment, which contrasted
strangely with the Gerhardt home. It was a great, rambling, two-story
affair, done after the manner of the French chateaux, but in red brick
and brownstone. It was set down, among flowers and trees, in an almost
park-like inclosure, and its very stones spoke of a splendid dignity
and of a refined luxury. Old Archibald Kane, the father, had amassed a
tremendous fortune, not by grabbing and brow-beating and unfair
methods, but by seeing a big need and filling it. Early in life he had
realized that America was a growing country. There was going to be a
big demand for vehicles--wagons, carriages, drays--and he
knew that some one would have to supply them. Having founded a small
wagon industry, he had built it up into a great business; he made good
wagons, and he sold them at a good profit. It was his theory that most
men were honest; he believed that at bottom they wanted honest things,
and if you gave them these they would buy of you, and come back and
buy again and again, until you were an influential and rich man. He
believed in the measure "heaped full and running over." All through
his life and now in his old age he enjoyed the respect and approval of
every one who knew him. "Archibald Kane," you would hear his
competitors say, "Ah, there is a fine man. Shrewd, but honest. He's a
big man."

This man was the father of two sons and three daughters, all
healthy, all good-looking, all blessed with exceptional minds, but
none of them so generous and forceful as their long-living and
big-hearted sire. Robert, the eldest, a man forty years of age, was
his father's right-hand man in financial matters, having a certain
hard incisiveness which fitted him for the somewhat sordid details of
business life. He was of medium height, of a rather spare build, with
a high forehead, slightly inclined to baldness, bright, liquid-blue
eyes, an eagle nose, and thin, firm, even lips. He was a man of few
words, rather slow to action and of deep thought. He sat close to his
father as vice-president of the big company which occupied two whole
blocks in an outlying section of the city. He was a strong man--a
coming man, as his father well knew.

Lester, the second boy, was his father's favorite. He was not by
any means the financier that Robert was, but he had a larger vision of
the subtleties that underlie life. He was softer, more human, more
good-natured about everything. And, strangely enough, old Archibald
admired and trusted him. He knew he had the bigger vision. Perhaps he
turned to Robert when it was a question of some intricate financial
problem, but Lester was the most loved as a son.

Then there was Amy, thirty-two years of age, married, handsome, the
mother of one child--a boy; Imogene, twenty-eight, also married,
but as yet without children, and Louise, twenty-five, single, the
best-looking of the girls, but also the coldest and most critical. She
was the most eager of all for social distinction, the most vigorous of
all in her love of family prestige, the most desirous that the Kane
family should outshine every other. She was proud to think that the
family was so well placed socially, and carried herself with an air
and a hauteur which was sometimes amusing, sometimes irritating to
Lester! He liked her--in a way she was his favorite
sister--but he thought she might take herself with a little less
seriousness and not do the family standing any harm.

Mrs. Kane, the mother, was a quiet, refined woman, sixty years of
age, who, having come up from comparative poverty with her husband,
cared but little for social life. But she loved her children and her
husband, and was naively proud of their position and attainments. It
was enough for her to shine only in their reflected glory. A good
woman, a good wife, and a good mother.

Lester arrived at Cincinnati early in the evening, and drove at
once to his home. An old Irish servitor met him at the door.

"Ah, Mr. Lester," he began, joyously, "sure I'm glad to see you
back. I'll take your coat. Yes, yes, it's been fine weather we're
having. Yes, yes, the family's all well. Sure your sister Amy is just
after leavin' the house with the boy. Your mother's up-stairs in her
room. Yes, yes."

Lester smiled cheerily and went up to his mother's room. In this,
which was done in white and gold and overlooked the garden to the
south and east, sat Mrs. Kane, a subdued, graceful, quiet woman, with
smoothly laid gray hair. She looked up when the door opened, laid down
the volume that she had been reading, and rose to greet him.

"There you are, Mother," he said, putting his arms around her and
kissing her. "How are you?"

"Oh, I'm just about the same, Lester. How have you been?"

"Fine. I was up with the Bracebridges for a few days again. I had
to stop off in Cleveland to see Parsons. They all asked after
you."

"How is Minnie?"

"Just the same. She doesn't change any that I can see. She's just
as interested in entertaining as she ever was."

"She's a bright girl," remarked his mother, recalling Mrs.
Bracebridge as a girl in Cincinnati. "I always liked her. She's so
sensible."

"She hasn't lost any of that, I can tell you," replied Lester
significantly. Mrs. Kane smiled and went on to speak of various family
happenings. Imogene's husband was leaving for St. Louis on some
errand. Robert's wife was sick with a cold. Old Zwingle, the yard
watchman at the factory, who had been with Mr. Kane for over forty
years, had died. Her husband was going to the funeral. Lester listened
dutifully, albeit a trifle absently.

Lester, as he walked down the hall, encountered Louise. "Smart" was
the word for her. She was dressed in a beaded black silk dress,
fitting close to her form, with a burst of rubies at her throat which
contrasted effectively with her dark complexion and black hair. Her
eyes were black and piercing.

"Oh, there you are, Lester," she exclaimed. "When did you get in?
Be careful how you kiss me. I'm going out, and I'm all fixed, even to
the powder on my nose. Oh, you bear!" Lester had gripped her firmly
and kissed her soundly. She pushed him away with her strong hands.

"I didn't brush much of it off," he said. "You can always dust more
on with that puff of yours." He passed on to his own room to dress for
dinner. Dressing for dinner was a custom that had been adopted by the
Kane family in the last few years. Guests had become so common that in
a way it was a necessity, and Louise, in particular, made a point of
it. To-night Robert was coming, and a Mr. and Mrs. Burnett, old
friends of his father and mother, and so, of course, the meal would be
a formal one. Lester knew that his father was around somewhere, but he
did not trouble to look him up now. He was thinking of his last two
days in Cleveland and wondering when he would see Jennie again.




CHAPTER XX


As Lester came down-stairs after making his toilet he found his
father in the library reading.

"Hello, Lester," he said, looking up from his paper over the top of
his glasses and extending his hand. "Where do you come from?"

"Cleveland," replied his son, shaking hands heartily, and
smiling.

"Robert tells me you've been to New York."

"Yes, I was there."

"How did you find my old friend Arnold?"

"Just about the same," returned Lester. "He doesn't look any
older."

"I suppose not," said Archibald Kane genially, as if the report
were a compliment to his own hardy condition. "He's been a temperate
man. A fine old gentleman."

He led the way back to the sitting-room where they chatted over
business and home news until the chime of the clock in the hall warned
the guests up-stairs that dinner had been served.

Lester sat down in great comfort amid the splendors of the great
Louis Quinze dining-room. He liked this homey home
atmosphere--his mother and father and his sisters--the old
family friends. So he smiled and was exceedingly genial.

Louise announced that the Leverings were going to give a dance on
Tuesday, and inquired whether he intended to go.

"You know I don't dance," he returned dryly. "Why should I go?"

"Don't dance? Won't dance, you mean. You're getting too lazy to
move. If Robert is willing to dance occasionally I think you
might."

"Robert's got it on me in lightness," Lester replied, airily.

"And politeness," retorted Louise.

"Be that as it may," said Lester.

"Don't try to stir up a fight, Louise," observed Robert,
sagely.

After dinner they adjourned to the library, and Robert talked with
his brother a little on business. There were some contracts coming up
for revision. He wanted to see what suggestions Lester had to make.
Louise was going to a party, and the carriage was now announced. "So
you are not coming?" she asked, a trifle complainingly.

"Too tired," said Lester lightly. "Make my excuses to Mrs.
Knowles."

"Letty Pace asked about you the other night," Louise called back
from the door.

"Kind," replied Lester. "I'm greatly obliged."

"She's a nice girl, Lester," put in his father, who was standing
near the open fire. "I only wish you would marry her and settle down.
You'd have a good wife in her."

"She's charming," testified Mrs. Kane.

"What is this?" asked Lester jocularly--"a conspiracy? You
know I'm not strong on the matrimonial business."

"And I well know it," replied his mother semi-seriously. "I wish
you were."

Lester changed the subject. He really could not stand for this sort
of thing any more, he told himself. And as he thought his mind
wandered back to Jennie and her peculiar "Oh no, no!" There was
someone that appealed to him. That was a type of womanhood worth
while. Not sophisticated, not self-seeking, not watched over and set
like a man-trap in the path of men, but a sweet little
girl--sweet as a flower, who was without anybody, apparently, to
watch over her. That night in his room he composed a letter, which he
dated a week later, because he did not want to appear too urgent and
because he could not again leave Cincinnati for at least two
weeks.

"MY DEAR JENNIE, Although it has been a week, and I have said
nothing, I have not forgotten you--believe me. Was the impression
I gave of myself very bad? I will make it better from now on, for I
love you, little girl--I really do. There is a flower on my table
which reminds me of you very much--white, delicate, beautiful.
Your personality, lingering with me, is just that. You are the essence
of everything beautiful to me. It is in your power to strew flowers in
my path if you will.

"But what I want to say here is that I shall be in Cleveland on the
18th, and I shall expect to see you. I arrive Thursday night, and I
want you to meet me in the ladies' parlor of the Dornton at noon
Friday. Will you? You can lunch with me.

"You see, I respect your suggestion that I should not call. (I will
not--on condition.) These separations are dangerous to good
friendship. Write me that you will. I throw myself on your generosity.
But I can't take "no" for an answer, not now.

"With a world of affection.

"LESTER KANE."

He sealed the letter and addressed it. "She's a remarkable girl in
her way," he thought. "She really is."




CHAPTER XXI


The arrival of this letter, coming after a week of silence and
after she had had a chance to think, moved Jennie deeply. What did she
want to do? What ought she to do? How did she truly feel about this
man? Did she sincerely wish to answer his letter? If she did so, what
should she say? Heretofore all her movements, even the one in which
she had sought to sacrifice herself for the sake of Bass in Columbus,
had not seemed to involve any one but herself. Now, there seemed to be
others to consider--her family, above all, her child. The little
Vesta was now eighteen months of age; she was an interesting child;
her large, blue eyes and light hair giving promise of a comeliness
which would closely approximate that of her mother, while her mential
traits indicated a clear and intelligent mind. Mrs. Gerhardt had
become very fond of her. Gerhardt had unbended so gradually that his
interest was not even yet clearly discernible, but he had a distinct
feeling of kindliness toward her. And this readjustment of her
father's attitude had aroused in Jennie an ardent desire to so conduct
herself that no pain should ever come to him again. Any new folly on
her part would not only be base ingratitude to her father, but would
tend to injure the prospects of her little one. Her life was a
failure, she fancied, but Vesta's was a thing apart; she must do
nothing to spoil it. She wondered whether it would not be better to
write Lester and explain everything. She had told him that she did not
wish to do wrong. Suppose she went on to inform him that she had a
child, and beg him to leave her in peace. Would he obey her? She
doubted it. Did she really want him to take her at her word?

The need of making this confession was a painful thing to Jennie.
It caused her to hesitate, to start a letter in which she tried to
explain, and then to tear it up. Finally, fate intervened in the
sudden home-coming of her father, who had been seriously injured by an
accident at the glass-works in Youngstown where he worked.

It was on a Wednesday afternoon, in the latter part of August, when
a letter came from Gerhardt. But instead of the customary fatherly
communication, written in German and inclosing the regular weekly
remittance of five dollars, there was only a brief note, written by
another hand, and explaining that the day before Gerhardt had received
a severe burn on both hands, due to the accidental overturning of a
dipper of molten glass. The letter added that he would be home the
next morning.

"What do you think of that?" exclaimed William, his mouth wide
open.

"Poor papa!" said Veronica, tears welling up in her eyes.

Mrs. Gerhardt sat down, clasped her hands in her lap, and stared at
the floor. "Now, what to do?" she nervously exclaimed. The possibility
that Gerhardt was disabled for life opened long vistas of difficulties
which she had not the courage to contemplate.

Bass came home at half-past six and Jennie at eight. The former
heard the news with an astonished face.

"Gee! that's tough, isn't it?" he exclaimed. "Did the letter say
how bad he was hurt?"

"No," replied Mrs. Gerhardt.

"Well, I wouldn't worry about it," said Bass easily. "It won't do
any good. We'll get along somehow. I wouldn't worry like that if I
were you."

The truth was, he wouldn't, because his nature was wholly
different. Life did not rest heavily upon his shoulders. His brain was
not large enough to grasp the significance and weigh the results of
things.

"I know," said Mrs. Gerhardt, endeavoring to recover herself. "I
can't help it, though. To think that just when we were getting along
fairly well this new calamity should be added. It seems sometimes as
if we were under a curse. We have so much bad luck."

When Jennie came her mother turned to her instinctively; here was
her one stay.

"What's the matter, ma?" asked Jennie as she opened the door and
observed her mother's face. "What have you been crying about?"

Mrs. Gerhardt looked at her, and then turned half away.

"Pa's had his hands burned," put in Bass solemnly. "He'll be home
to-morrow."

Jennie turned and stared at him. "His hands burned!" she
exclaimed.

"Yes," said Bass.

"How did it happen?"

"A pot of glass was turned over."

Jennie looked at her mother, and her eyes dimmed with tears.
Instinctively she ran to her and put her arms around her.

"Now, don't you cry, ma," she said, barely able to control herself.
"Don't you worry. I know how you feel, but we'll get along. Don't cry
now." Then her own lips lost their evenness, and she struggled long
before she could pluck up courage to contemplate this new disaster.
And now without volition upon her part there leaped into her
consciousness a new and subtly persistent thought. What about Lester's
offer of assistance now? What about his declaration of love? Somehow
it came back to her--his affection, his personality, his desire
to help her, his sympathy, so like that which Brander had shown when
Bass was in jail. Was she doomed to a second sacrifice? Did it really
make any difference? Wasn't her life a failure already? She thought
this over as she looked at her mother sitting there so silent,
haggard, and distraught. "What a pity," she thought, "that her mother
must always suffer! Wasn't it a shame that she could never have any
real happiness?"

"I wouldn't feel so badly," she said, after a time. "Maybe pa isn't
burned so badly as we think. Did the letter say he'd be home in the
morning?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Gerhardt, recovering herself.

They talked more quietly from now on, and gradually, as the details
were exhausted, a kind of dumb peace settled down upon the
household.

"One of us ought to go to the train to meet him in the morning,"
said Jennie to Bass. "I will. I guess Mrs. Bracebridge won't
mind."

"No," said Bass gloomily, "you mustn't. I can go."

He was sour at this new fling of fate, and he looked his feelings;
he stalked off gloomily to his room and shut himself in. Jennie and
her mother saw the others off to bed, and then sat out in the kitchen
talking.

"I don't see what's to become of us now," said Mrs. Gerhardt at
last, completely overcome by the financial complications which this
new calamity had brought about. She looked so weak and helpless that
Jennie could hardly contain herself.

"Don't worry, mamma dear," she said, softly, a peculiar resolve
coming into her heart. The world was wide. There was comfort and ease
in it scattered by others with a lavish hand. Surely, surely
misfortune could not press so sharply but that they could live!

She sat down with her mother, the difficulties of the future
seeming to approach with audible and ghastly steps.

"What do you suppose will become of us now?" repeated her mother,
who saw how her fanciful conception of this Cleveland home had
crumbled before her eyes.

"Why," said Jennie, who saw clearly and knew what could be done,
"it will be all right. I wouldn't worry about it. Something will
happen. We'll get something."

She realized, as she sat there, that fate had shifted the burden of
the situation to her. She must sacrifice herself; there was no other
way.

Bass met his father at the railway station in the morning. He
looked very pale, and seemed to have suffered a great deal. His cheeks
were slightly sunken and his bony profile appeared rather gaunt. His
hands were heavily bandaged, and altogether he presented such a
picture of distress that many stopped to look at him on the way home
from the station.

"By chops," he said to Bass, "that was a burn I got. I thought once
I couldn't stand the pain any longer. Such pain I had! Such pain! By
chops! I will never forget it."

He related just how the accident had occurred, and said that he did
not know whether he would ever be able to use his hands again. The
thumb on his right hand and the first two fingers on the left had been
burned to the bone. The latter had been amputated at the first
joint--the thumb he might save, but his hands would be in danger
of being stiff.

"By chops!" he added, "just at the time when I needed the money
most. Too bad! Too bad!"

When they reached the house, and Mrs. Gerhardt opened the door, the
old mill-worker, conscious of her voiceless sympathy, began to cry.
Mrs. Gerhardt sobbed also. Even Bass lost control of himself for a
moment or two, but quickly recovered. The other children wept, until
Bass called a halt on all of them.

"Don't cry now," he said cheeringly. "What's the use of crying? It
isn't so bad as all that. You'll be all right again. We can get
along."

Bass's words had a soothing effect, temporarily, and, now that her
husband was home, Mrs. Gerhardt recovered her composure. Though his
hands were bandaged, the mere fact that he could walk and was not
otherwise injured was some consolation. He might recover the use of
his hands and be able to undertake light work again. Anyway, they
would hope for the best.

When Jennie came home that night she wanted to run to her father
and lay the treasury of her services and affection at his feet, but
she trembled lest he might be as cold to her as formerly.

Gerhardt, too, was troubled. Never had he completely recovered from
the shame which his daughter had brought upon him. Although he wanted
to be kindly, his feelings were so tangled that he hardly knew what to
say or do.

"Papa," said Jennie, approaching him timidly.

Gerhardt looked confused and tried to say something natural, but it
was unavailing. The thought of his helplessness, the knowledge of her
sorrow and of his own responsiveness to her affection--it was all
too much for him; he broke down again and cried helplessly.

"Forgive me, papa," she pleaded, "I'm so sorry. Oh, I'm so
sorry."

He did not attempt to look at her, but in the swirl of feeling that
their meeting created he thought that he could forgive, and he
did.

"I have prayed," he said brokenly. "It is all right."

When he recovered himself he felt ashamed of his emotion, but a new
relationship of sympathy and of understanding had been established.
From that time, although there was always a great reserve between
them, Gerhardt tried not to ignore her completely, and she endeavored
to show him the simple affection of a daughter, just as in the old
days.

But while the household was again at peace, there were other cares
and burdens to be faced. How were they to get along now with five
dollars taken from the weekly budget, and with the cost of Gerhardt's
presence added? Bass might have contributed more of his weekly
earnings, but he did not feel called upon to do it. And so the small
sum of nine dollars weekly must meet as best it could the current
expenses of rent, food, and coal, to say nothing of incidentals, which
now began to press very heavily. Gerhardt had to go to a doctor to
have his hands dressed daily. George needed a new pair of shoes.
Either more money must come from some source or the family must beg
for credit and suffer the old tortures of want. The situation
crystallized the half-formed resolve in Jennie's mind.

Lester's letter had been left unanswered. The day was drawing near.
Should she write? He would help them. Had he not tried to force money
on her? She finally decided that it was her duty to avail herself of
this proffered assistance. She sat down and wrote him a brief note.
She would meet him as he had requested, but he would please not come
to the house. She mailed the letter, and then waited, with mingled
feelings of trepidation and thrilling expectancy, the arrival of the
fateful day.




CHAPTER XXII


The fatal Friday came, and Jennie stood face to face with this new
and overwhelming complication in her modest scheme of existence. There
was really no alternative, she thought. Her own life was a failure.
Why go on fighting? If she could make her family happy, if she could
give Vesta a good education, if she could conceal the true nature of
this older story and keep Vesta in the background perhaps,
perhaps--well, rich men had married poor girls before this, and
Lester was very kind, he certainly liked her. At seven o'clock she
went to Mrs. Bracebridge's; at noon she excused herself on the pretext
of some work for her mother and left the house for the hotel.

Lester, leaving Cincinnati a few days earlier than he expected, had
failed to receive her reply; he arrived at Cleveland feeling sadly out
of tune with the world. He had a lingering hope that a letter from
Jennie might be awaiting him at the hotel, but there was no word from
her. He was a man not easily wrought up, but to-night he felt
depressed, and so went gloomily up to his room and changed his linen.
After supper he proceeded to drown his dissatisfaction in a game of
billiards with some friends, from whom he did not part until he had
taken very much more than his usual amount of alcoholic stimulant. The
next morning he arose with a vague idea of abandoning the whole
affair, but as the hours elapsed and the time of his appointment drew
near he decided that it might not be unwise to give her one last
chance. She might come. Accordingly, when it still lacked a quarter of
an hour of the time, he went down into the parlor. Great was his
delight when he beheld her sitting in a chair and waiting--the
outcome of her acquiescence. He walked briskly up, a satisfied,
gratified smile on his face.

"So you did come after all," he said, gazing at her with the look
of one who has lost and recovered a prize. "What do you mean by not
writing me? I thought from the way you neglected me that you had made
up your mind not to come at all."

"I did write," she replied.

"Where?"

"To the address you gave me. I wrote three days ago."

"That explains it. It came too late. You should have written me
before. How have you been?"

"Oh, all right," she replied.

"You don't look it!" he said. "You look worried. What's the
trouble, Jennie? Nothing gone wrong out at your house, has there?"

It was a fortuitous question. He hardly knew why lie had asked it.
Yet it opened the door to what she wanted to say.

"My father's sick," she replied.

"What's happened to him?"

"He burned his hands at the glass-works. We've been terribly
worried. It looks as though he would not be able to use them any
more."

She paused, looking the distress she felt, and he saw plainly that
she was facing a crisis.

"That's too bad," he said. "That certainly is. When did this
happen?"

"Oh, almost three weeks ago now."

"It certainly is bad. Come in to lunch, though. I want to talk with
you. I've been wanting to get a better understanding of your family
affairs ever since I left." He led the way into the dining-room and
selected a secluded table. He tried to divert her mind by asking her
to order the luncheon, but she was too worried and too shy to do so
and he had to make out the menu by himself. Then he turned to her with
a cheering air. "Now, Jennie," he said, "I want you to tell me all
about your family. I got a little something of it last time, but I
want to get it straight. Your father, you said, was a glass-blower by
trade. Now he can't work any more at that, that's obvious."

"Yes," she said.

"How many other children are there?"

"Six."

"Are you the oldest?"

"No, my brother Sebastian is. He's twenty-two."

"And what does he do?"

"He's a clerk in a cigar store."

"Do you know how much he makes?"

"I think it's twelve dollars," she replied thoughtfully.

"And the other children?"

"Martha and Veronica don't do anything yet. They're too young. My
brother George works at Wilson's. He's a cash-boy. He gets three
dollars and a half."

"And how much do you make?"

"I make four."

He stopped, figuring up mentally just what they had to live on.
"How much rent do you pay?" he continued.

"Twelve dollars."

"How old is your mother?"

"She's nearly fifty now."

He turned a fork in his hands back and forth; he was thinking
earnestly.

"To tell you the honest truth, I fancied it was something like
that, Jennie," he said. "I've been thinking about you a lot. Now, I
know. There's only one answer to your problem, and it isn't such a bad
one, if you'll only believe me." He paused for an inquiry, but she
made none. Her mind was running on her own difficulties.

"Don't you want to know?" he inquired.

"Yes," she answered mechanically.

"It's me," he replied. "You have to let me help you. I wanted to
last time. Now you have to; do you hear?"

"I thought I wouldn't," she said simply.

"I knew what you thought," he replied. "That's all over now. I'm
going to 'tend to that family of yours. And I'll do it right now while
I think of it."

He drew out his purse and extracted several ten and twenty-dollar
bills--two hundred and fifty dollars in all. "I want you to take
this," he said. "It's just the beginning. I will see that your family
is provided for from now on. Here, give me your hand."

"Oh no," she said. "Not so much. Don't give me all that."

"Yes," he replied. "Don't argue. Here. Give me your hand."

She put it out in answer to the summons of his eyes, and he shut
her fingers on the money, pressing them gently at the same time. "I
want you to have it, sweet. I love you, little girl. I'm not going to
see you suffer, nor any one belonging to you."

Her eyes looked a dumb thankfulness, and she bit her lips.

"I don't know how to thank you," she said.

"You don't need to," he replied. "The thanks are all the other
way--believe me."

He paused and looked at her, the beauty of her face holding him.
She looked at the table, wondering what would come next.

"How would you like to leave what you're doing and stay at home?"
he asked. "That would give you your freedom day times."

"I couldn't do that," she replied. "Papa wouldn't allow it. He
knows I ought to work."

"That's true enough," he said. "But there's so little in what
you're doing. Good heavens! Four dollars a week! I would be glad to
give you fifty times that sum if I thought there was any way in which
you could use it." He idly thrummed the cloth with his fingers.

"I couldn't," she said. "I hardly know how to use this. They'll
suspect. I'll have to tell mamma."

From the way she said it he judged there must be some bond of
sympathy between her and her mother which would permit of a confidence
such as this. He was by no means a hard man, and the thought touched
him. But he would not relinquish his purpose.

"There's only one thing to be done, as far as I can see," he went
on very gently. "You're not suited for the kind of work you're doing.
You're too refined. I object to it. Give it up and come with me down
to New York; I'll take good care of you. I love you and want you. As
far as your family is concerned, you won't have to worry about them
any more. You can take a nice home for them and furnish it in any
style you please. Wouldn't you like that?"

He paused, and Jennie's thoughts reverted quickly to her mother,
her dear mother. All her life long Mrs. Gerhardt had been talking of
this very thing--a nice home. If they could just have a larger
house, with good furniture and a yard filled with trees, how happy she
would be. In such a home she would be free of the care of rent, the
discomfort of poor furniture, the wretchedness of poverty; she would
be so happy. She hesitated there while his keen eye followed her in
spirit, and he saw what a power he had set in motion. It had been a
happy inspiration--the suggestion of a decent home for the
family. He waited a few minutes longer, and then said:

"Well, wouldn't you better let me do that?"

"It would be very nice," she said, "but it can't be done now. I
couldn't leave home. Papa would want to know all about where I was
going. I wouldn't know what to say."

"Why couldn't you pretend that you are going down to New York with
Mrs. Bracebridge?" he suggested. "There couldn't be any objection to
that, could there?"

"Not if they didn't find out," she said, her eyes opening in
amazement. "But if they should!"

"They won't," he replied calmly. "They're not watching Mrs.
Bracebridge's affairs. Plenty of mistresses take their maids on long
trips. Why not simply tell them you're invited to go--have to
go--and then go?"

"Do you think I could?" she inquired.

"Certainly," he replied. "What is there peculiar about that?"

She thought it over, and the plan did seem feasible. Then she
looked at this man and realized that relationship with him meant
possible motherhood for her again. The tragedy of giving birth to a
child--ah, she could not go through that a second time, at least
under the same conditions. She could not bring herself to tell him
about Vesta, but she must voice this insurmountable objection.

"I--" she said, formulating the first word of her sentence,
and then stopping.

"Yes," he said. "I--what?"

"I--" She paused again.

He loved her shy ways, her sweet, hesitating lips.

"What is it, Jennie?" he asked helpfully. "You're so delicious.
Can't you tell me?"

Her hand was on the table. He reached over and laid his strong
brown one on top of it.

"I couldn't have a baby," she said, finally, and looked down.

He gazed at her, and the charm of her frankness, her innate decency
under conditions so anomalous, her simple unaffected recognition of
the primal facts of life lifted her to a plane in his esteem which she
had not occupied until that moment.

"You're a great girl, Jennie," he said. "You're wonderful. But
don't worry about that. It can be arranged. You don't need to have a
child unless you want to, and I don't want you to."

He saw the question written in her wondering, shamed face.

"It's so," he said. "You believe me, don't you? You think I know,
don't you?"

"Yes," she faltered.

"Well, I do. But anyway, I wouldn't let any trouble come to you.
I'll take you away. Besides, I don't want any children. There wouldn't
be any satisfaction in that proposition for me at this time. I'd
rather wait. But there won't be--don't worry."

"Yes," she said faintly. Not for worlds could she have met his
eyes.

"Look here, Jennie," he said, after a time. "You care for me, don't
you? You don't think I'd sit here and plead with you if I didn't care
for you? I'm crazy about you, and that's the literal truth. You're
like wine to me. I want you to come with me. I want you to do it
quickly. I know how difficult this family business is, but you can
arrange it. Come with me down to New York. We'll work out something
later. I'll meet your family. We'll pretend a courtship, anything you
like--only come now."

"You don't mean right away, do you?" she asked, startled.

"Yes, to-morrow if possible. Monday sure. You can arrange it. Why,
if Mrs. Bracebridge asked you you'd go fast enough, and no one would
think anything about it. Isn't that so?"

"Yes," she admitted slowly.

"Well, then, why not now?"

"It's always so much harder to work out a falsehood," she replied
thoughtfully.

"I know it, but you can come. Won't you?"

"Won't you wait a little while?" she pleaded. "It's so very sudden.
I'm afraid."

"Not a day, sweet, that I can help. Can't you see how I feel? Look
in my eyes. Will you?"

"Yes," she replied sorrowfully, and yet with a strange thrill of
affection. "I will."




CHAPTER XXIII


The business of arranging for this sudden departure was really not
so difficult as it first appeared. Jennie proposed to tell her mother
the whole truth, and there was nothing to say to her father except
that she was going with Mrs. Bracebridge at the latter's request. He
might question her, but he really could not doubt Before going home
that afternoon she accompanied Lester to a department store, where she
was fitted out with a trunk, a suit-case, and a traveling suit and
hat. Lester was very proud of his prize. "When we get to New York I am
going to get you some real things," he told her. "I am going to show
you what you can be made to look like." He had all the purchased
articles packed in the trunk and sent to his hotel. Then he arranged
to have Jennie come there and dress Monday for the trip which began in
the afternoon.

When she came home Mrs. Gerhardt, who was in the kitchen, received
her with her usual affectionate greeting. "Have you been working very
hard?" she asked. "You look tired."

"No," she said, "I'm not tired. It isn't that. I just don't feel
good."

"What's the trouble?"

"Oh, I have to tell you something, mamma. It's so hard." She
paused, looking inquiringly at her mother, and then away.

"Why, what is it?" asked her mother nervously. So many things had
happened in the past that she was always on the alert for some new
calamity. "You haven't lost your place, have you?"

"No," replied Jennie, with an effort to maintain her mental poise,
"but I'm going to leave it."

"No!" exclaimed her mother. "Why?"

"I'm going to New York."

Her mother's eyes opened widely. "Why, when did you decide to do
that?" she inquired.

"To-day."

"You don't mean it!"

"Yes, I do, mamma. Listen. I've got something I want to tell you.
You know how poor we are. There isn't any way we can make things come
out right. I have found some one who wants to help us. He says he
loves me, and he wants me to go to New York with him Monday. I've
decided to go."

"Oh, Jennie!" exclaimed her mother. "Surely not! You wouldn't do
anything like that after all that's happened. Think of your
father."

"I've thought it all out," went on Jennie, firmly. "It's really for
the best. He's a good man. I know he is. He has lots of money. He
wants me to go with him, and I'd better go. He will take a new house
for us when we come back and help us to get along. No one will ever
have me as a wife--you know that. It might as well be this way.
He loves me. And I love him. Why shouldn't I go?"

"Does he know about Vesta?" asked her mother cautiously.

"No," said Jennie guiltily. "I thought I'd better not tell him
about her. She oughtn't to be brought into it if I can help it."

"I'm afraid you're storing up trouble for yourself, Jennie," said
her mother. "Don't you think he is sure to find it out some time?"

"I thought maybe that she could be kept here," suggested Jennie,
"until she's old enough to go to school. Then maybe I could send her
somewhere."

"She might," assented her mother; "but don't you think it would be
better to tell him now? He won't think any the worse of you."

"It isn't that. It's her," said Jennie passionately. "I don't want
her to be brought into it."

Her mother shook her head. "Where did you meet him?" she
inquired.

"At Mrs. Bracebridge's."

"How long ago?"

"Oh, it's been almost two months now."

"And you never said anything about him," protested Mrs. Gerhardt
reproachfully.

"I didn't know that he cared for me this way," said Jennie
defensively.

"Why didn't you wait and let him come out here first?" asked her
mother. "It will make things so much easier. You can't go and not have
your father find out."

"I thought I'd say I was going with Mrs. Bracebridge. Papa can't
object to my going with her."

"No," agreed her mother thoughtfully.

The two looked at each other in silence. Mrs. Gerhardt, with her
imaginative nature, endeavored to formulate some picture of this new
and wonderful personality that had come into Jennie's life. He was
wealthy; he wanted to take Jennie; he wanted to give them a good home.
What a story!

"And he gave me this," put in Jennie, who, with some instinctive
psychic faculty, had been following her mother's mood. She opened her
dress at the neck, and took out the two hundred and fifty dollars; she
placed the money in her mother's hands.

The latter stared at it wide-eyed. Here was the relief for all her
woes--food, clothes, rent, coal--all done up in one small
package of green and yellow bills. If there were plenty of money in
the house Gerhardt need not worry about his burned hands; George and
Martha and Veronica could be clothed in comfort and made happy.

Jennie could dress better; there would be a future education for
Vesta.

"Do you think he might ever want to marry you?" asked her mother
finally.

"I don't know," replied Jennie "he might. I know he loves me."

"Well," said her mother after a long pause, "if you're going to
tell your father you'd better do it right away. He'll think it's
strange as it is."

Jennie realized that she had won. Her mother had acquiesced from
sheer force of circumstances. She was sorry, but somehow it seemed to
be for the best. "I'll help you out with it," her mother had
concluded, with a little sigh.

The difficulty of telling this lie was very great for Mrs.
Gerhardt, but she went through the falsehood with a seeming
nonchalance which allayed Gerhardt's suspicions. The children were
also told, and when, after the general discussion, Jennie repeated the
falsehood to her father it seemed natural enough.

"How long do you think you'll be gone?" he inquired.

"About two or three weeks," she replied.

"That's a nice trip," he said. "I came through New York in 1844. It
was a small place then compared to what it is now."

Secretly he was pleased that Jennie should have this fine chance.
Her employer must like her.

When Monday came Jennie bade her parents good-by and left early,
going straight to the Dornton, where Lester awaited her.

"So you came," he said gaily, greeting her as she entered the
ladies' parlor.

"Yes," she said simply.

"You are my niece," he went on. "I have engaged H room for you near
mine. I'll call for the key, and you go dress. When you're ready I'll
have the trunk sent to the depot. The train leaves at one
o'clock."

She went to her room and dressed, while he fidgeted about, read,
smoked, and finally knocked at her door.

She replied by opening to him, fully clad.

"You look charming," he said with a smile.

She looked down, for she was nervous and distraught. The whole
process of planning, lying, nerving herself to carry out her part had
been hard on her. She looked tired and worried.

"Not grieving, are you?" he asked, seeing how things stood.

"No-o," she replied.

"Come now, sweet. You mustn't feel this way. It's coming out all
right." He took her in his arms and kissed her, and they strolled down
the hall. He was astonished to see how well she looked in even these
simple clothes--the best she had ever had.

They reached the depot after a short carriage ride. The
accommodations had been arranged for before hand, and Kane had allowed
just enough time to make the train. When they settled themselves in a
Pullman state-room it was with a keen sense of satisfaction on his
part. Life looked rosy. Jennie was beside him. He had succeeded in
what he had started out to do. So might it always be.

As the train rolled out of the depot and the long reaches of the
fields succeeded Jennie studied them wistfully. There were the
forests, leafless and bare; the wide, brown fields, wet with the rains
of winter; the low farm-houses sitting amid flat stretches of prairie,
their low roofs making them look as if they were hugging the ground.
The train roared past little hamlets, with cottages of white and
yellow and drab, their roofs blackened by frost and rain. Jennie noted
one in particular which seemed to recall the old neighborhood where
they used to live at Columbus; she put her handkerchief to her eyes
and began silently to cry.

"I hope you're not crying, are you, Jennie?" said

Lester, looking up suddenly from the letter he had been reading.
"Come, come," he went on as he saw a faint tremor shaking her. "This
won't do. You have to do better than this. You'll never get along if
you act that way."

She made no reply, and the depth of her silent grief filled him
with strange sympathies.

"Don't cry," he continued soothingly; "everything will be all
right. I told you that. You needn't worry about anything."

Jennie made a great effort to recover herself, and began to dry her
eyes.

"You don't want to give way like that," he continued. "It doesn't
do you any good. I know how you feel about leaving home, but tears
won't help it any. It isn't as if you were going away for good, you
know. Besides, you'll be going back shortly. You care for me, don't
you, sweet? I'm something?"

"Yes," she said, and managed to smile back at him.

Lester returned to his correspondence and Jennie fell to thinking
of Vesta. It troubled her to realize that she was keeping this secret
from one who was already very dear to her. She knew that she ought to
tell Lester about the child, but she shrank from the painful
necessity. Perhaps later on she might find the courage to do it.

"I'll have to tell him something," she thought with a sudden
upwelling of feeling as regarded the seriousness of this duty. "If I
don't do it soon and I should go and live with him and he should find
it out he would never forgive me. He might turn me out, and then where
would I go? I have no home now. What would I do with Vesta?"

She turned to contemplate him, a premonitory wave of terror
sweeping over her, but she only saw that imposing and comfort-loving
soul quietly reading his letters, his smoothly shaved red cheek and
comfortable head and body looking anything but militant or like an
avenging Nemesis. She was just withdrawing her gaze when he looked
up.

"Well, have you washed all your sins away?" he inquired
merrily.

She smiled faintly at the allusion. The touch of fact in it made it
slightly piquant.

"I expect so," she replied.

He turned to some other topic, while she looked out of the window,
the realization that one impulse to tell him had proved unavailing
dwelling in her mind. "I'll have to do it shortly," she thought, and
consoled herself with the idea that she would surely find courage
before long.

Their arrival in New York the next day raised the important
question in Lester's mind as to where he should stop. New York was a
very large place, and he was not in much danger of encountering people
who would know him, but he thought it just as well not to take
chances. Accordingly he had the cabman drive them to one of the more
exclusive apartment hotels, where he engaged a suite of rooms; and
they settled themselves for a stay of two or three weeks.

This atmosphere into which Jennie was now plunged was so wonderful,
so illuminating, that she could scarcely believe this was the same
world that she had inhabited before. Kane was no lover of vulgar
display. The appointments with which he surrounded himself were always
simple and elegant. He knew at a glance what Jennie needed, and bought
for her with discrimination and care. And Jennie, a woman, took a keen
pleasure in the handsome gowns and pretty fripperies that he lavished
upon her. Could this be really Jennie Gerhardt, the washerwoman's
daughter, she asked herself, as she gazed in her mirror at the figure
of a girl clad in blue velvet, with yellow French lace at her throat
and upon her arms? Could these be her feet, clad in soft shapely shoes
at ten dollars a pair, these her hands adorned with flashing jewels?
What wonderful good fortune she was enjoying! And Lester had promised
that her mother would share in it. Tears sprang to her eyes at the
thought. The dear mother, how she loved her!

It was Lester's pleasure in these days to see what he could do to
make her look like some one truly worthy of im. He exercised his most
careful judgment, and the result surprised even himself. People turned
in the halls, in the dining-rooms, and on the street to gaze at
Jennie.

"A stunning woman that man has with him," was a frequent
comment.

Despite her altered state Jennie did not lose her judgment of life
or her sense of perspective or proportion. She felt as though life
were tentatively loaning her something which would be taken away after
a time. There was no pretty vanity in her bosom. Lester realized this
as he watched her. "You're a big woman, in your way," he said. "You'll
amount to something. Life hasn't given you much of a deal up to
now."

He wondered how he could justify this new relationship to his
family, should they chance to hear about it. If he should decide to
take a home in Chicago or St. Louis (there was such a thought running
in his mind) could he maintain it secretly? Did he want to? He was
half persuaded that he really, truly loved her.

As the time drew near for their return he began to counsel her as
to her future course of action. "You ought to find some way of
introducing me, as an acquaintance, to your father," he said. "It will
ease matters up. I think I'll call. Then if you tell him you're going
to marry me he'll think nothing of it." Jennie thought of Vesta, and
trembled inwardly. But perhaps her father could be induced to remain
silent.

Lester had made the wise suggestion that she should retain the
clothes she had worn in Cleveland in order that she might wear them
home when she reached there. "There won't be any trouble about this
other stuff," he said. "I'll have it cared for until we make some
other arrangement." It was all very simple and easy; he was a master
strategist.

Jennie had written her mother almost daily since she had been East.
She had inclosed little separate notes to be read by Mrs. Gerhardt
only. In one she explained Lester's desire to call, and urged her
mother to prepare the way by telling her father that she had met some
one who liked her. She spoke of the difficulty concerning Vesta, and
her mother at once began to plan a campaign o have Gerhardt hold his
peace. There must be no hitch now. Jennie must be given an opportunity
to better herself. When she returned there was great rejoicing. Of
course she could not go back to her work, but Mrs. Gerhardt explained
that Mrs. Bracebridge had given Jennie a few weeks' vacation in order
that she might look for something better, something at which he could
make more money.




CHAPTER XXIV


The problem of the Gerhardt family and its relationship to himself
comparatively settled, Kane betook himself to Cincinnati and to his
business duties. He was heartily interested in the immense plant,
which occupied two whole blocks in the outskirts of the city, and its
conduct and development was as much a problem and a pleasure to him as
to either his father or his brother. He liked to feel that he was a
vital part of this great and growing industry. When he saw freight
cars going by on the railroads labelled "The Kane Manufacturing
Company--Cincinnati" or chanced to notice displays of the
company's products in the windows of carriage sales companies in the
different cities he was conscious of a warm glow of satisfaction. It
was something to be a factor in an institution so stable, so
distinguished, so honestly worth while. This was all very well, but
now Kane was entering upon a new phase of his personal
existence--in a word, there was Jennie. He was conscious as he
rode toward his home city that he was entering on a relationship which
might involve disagreeable consequences. He was a little afraid of his
father's attitude; above all, there was his brother Robert.

Robert was cold and conventional in character; an excellent
business man; irreproachable in both his public and in his private
life. Never overstepping the strict boundaries of legal righteousness,
he was neither warm-hearted nor generous--in fact, he would turn
any trick which could be speciously, or at best necessitously,
recommended to his conscience. How he reasoned Lester did not
know--he could not follow the ramifications of a logic which
could combine hard business tactics with moral rigidity, but somehow
his brother managed to do it. "He's got a Scotch Presbyterian
conscience mixed with an Asiatic perception of the main chance."
Lester once told somebody, and he had the situation accurately
measured. Nevertheless he could not rout his brother from his
positions nor defy him, for he had the public conscience with him. He
was in line with convention practically, and perhaps
sophisticatedly.

The two brothers were outwardly friendly; inwardly they were far
apart. Robert liked Lester well enough personally, but he did not
trust his financial judgment, and, temperamentally, they did not agree
as to how life and its affairs should be conducted. Lester had a
secret contempt for his brother's chill, persistent chase of the
almighty dollar. Robert was sure that Lester's easy-going ways were
reprehensible, and bound to create trouble sooner or later. In the
business they did not quarrel much--there was not so much chance
with the old gentleman still in charge--but there were certain
minor differences constantly cropping up which showed which way the
wind blew. Lester was for building up trade through friendly
relationship, concessions, personal contact, and favors. Robert was
for pulling everything tight, cutting down the cost of production, and
offering such financial inducements as would throttle competition.

The old manufacturer always did his best to pour oil on these
troubled waters, but he foresaw an eventual clash. One or the other
would have to get out or perhaps both. "If only you two boys could
agree!" he used to say.

Another thing which disturbed Lester was his father's attitude on
the subject of marriage--Lester's marriage, to be specific.
Archibald Kane never ceased to insist on the fact that Lester ought to
get married, and that he was making a big mistake in putting it off.
All the other children, save Louise, were safely married. Why not his
favorite son? It was doing him injury morally, socially, commercially,
that he was sure of.

"The world expects it of a man in your position," his father had
argued from time to time. "It makes for social solidity and prestige.
You ought to pick out a good woman and raise a family. Where will you
be when you get to my time of life if you haven't any children, any
home?"

"Well, if the right woman came along," said Lester, "I suppose I'd
marry her. But she hasn't come along. What do you want me to do? Take
anybody?"

"No, not anybody, of course, but there are lots of good women. You
can surely find some one if you try. There's that Pace girl. What
about her? You used to like her. I wouldn't drift on this way, Lester;
it can't come to any good."

His son would only smile. "There, father, let it go now. I'll come
around some time, no doubt. I've got to be thirsty when I'm led to
water."

The old gentleman gave over, time and again, but it was a sore
point with him. He wanted his son to settle down and be a real man of
affairs.

The fact that such a situation as this might militate against any
permanent arrangement with Jennie was obvious even to Lester at this
time. He thought out his course of action carefully. Of course he
would not give Jennie up, whatever the possible consequences. But he
must be cautious; he must take no unnecessary risks. Could he bring
her to Cincinnati? What a scandal if it were ever found out! Could he
install her in a nice home somewhere near the city? The family would
probably eventually suspect something. Could he take her along on his
numerous business journeys? This first one to New York had been
successful. Would it always be so? He turned the question over in his
mind.

The very difficulty gave it zest. Perhaps St. Louis, or Pittsburg,
or Chicago would be best after all. He went to these places
frequently, and particularly to Chicago. He decided finally that it
should be Chicago if he could arrange it. He could always make excuses
to run up there, and it was only a night's ride. Yes, Chicago was
best. The very size and activity of the city made concealment easy.
After two weeks' stay at Cincinnati Lester wrote Jennie that he was
coming to Cleveland soon, and she answered that she thought it would
be all right for him to call and see her. Her father had been told
about him. She had felt it unwise to stay about the house, and so had
secured a position in a store at four dollars a week. He smiled as he
thought of her working, and yet the decency and energy of it appealed
to him. "She's all right," he said. "She's the best I've come across
yet."

He ran up to Cleveland the following Saturday, and, calling at her
place of business, he made an appointment to see her that evening. He
was anxious that his introduction, as her beau, should be gotten over
with as quickly as possible. When he did call the shabbiness of the
house and the manifest poverty of the family rather disgusted him, but
somehow Jennie seemed as sweet to him as ever. Gerhardt came in the
front-room, after he had been there a few minutes, and shook hands
with him, as did also Mrs. Gerhardt, but Lester paid little attention
to them. The old German appeared to him to be merely
commonplace--the sort of man who was hired by hundreds in common
capacities in his father's factory. After some desultory conversation
Lester suggested to Jennie that they should go for a drive. Jennie put
on her hat, and together they departed. As a matter of fact, they went
to an apartment which he had hired for the storage of her clothes.
When she returned at eight in the evening the family considered it
nothing amiss.




CHAPTER XXV


A month later Jennie was able to announce that Lester intended to
marry her. His visits had of course paved the way for this, and it
seemed natural enough. Only Gerhardt seemed a little doubtful. He did
not know just how this might be. Perhaps it was all right. Lester
seemed a fine enough man in all conscience, and really, after Brander,
why not? If a United States Senator could fall in love with Jennie,
why not a business man? There was just one thing--the child. "Has
she told him about Vesta?" he asked his wife.

"No," said Mrs. Gerhardt, "not yet."

"Not yet, not yet. Always something underhanded. Do you think he
wants her if he knows? That's what comes of such conduct in the first
place. Now she has to slip around like a thief. The child cannot even
have an honest name."

Gerhardt went back to his newspaper reading and brooding. His life
seemed a complete failure to him and he was only waiting to get well
enough to hunt up another job as watchman. He wanted to get out of
this mess of deception and dishonesty.

A week or two later Jennie confided to her mother that Lester had
written her to join him in Chicago. He was not feeling well, and could
not come to Cleveland. The two women explained to Gerhardt that Jennie
was going away to be married to Mr. Kane. Gerhardt flared up at this,
and his suspicions were again aroused. But he could do nothing but
grumble over the situation; it would lead to no good end, of that he
was sure.

When the day came for Jennie's departure she had to go without
saying farewell to her father. He was out looking for work until late
in the afternoon, and before he had returned she had been obliged to
leave for the station. "I will write a note to him when I get there,"
she said. She kissed her baby over and over. "Lester will take a
better house for us soon," she went on hopefully. "He wants us to
move." The night train bore her to Chicago; the old life had ended and
the new one had begun.

The curious fact should be recorded here that, although Lester's
generosity had relieved the stress upon the family finances, the
children and Gerhardt were actually none the wiser. It was easy for
Mrs. Gerhardt to deceive her husband as to the purchase of necessities
and she had not as yet indulged in any of the fancies which an
enlarged purse permitted. Fear deterred her. But, after Jennie had
been in Chicago for a few days, she wrote to her mother saying that
Lester wanted them to take a new home. This letter was shown to
Gerhardt, who had been merely biding her return to make a scene. He
frowned, but somehow it seemed an evidence of regularity. If he had
not married her why should he want to help them? Perhaps Jennie was
well married after all. Perhaps she really had been lifted to a high
station in life, and was now able to help the family. Gerhardt almost
concluded to forgive her everything once and for all.

The end of it was that a new house was decided upon, and Jennie
returned to Cleveland to help her mother move. Together they searched
the streets for a nice, quiet neighborhood, and finally found one. A
house of nine rooms, with a yard, which rented for thirty dollars, was
secured and suitably furnished. There were comfortable fittings for
the dining-room and sitting-room, a handsome parlor set and bedroom
sets complete for each room. The kitchen was supplied with every
convenience, and there was even a bath-room, a luxury the Gerhardts
had never enjoyed before. Altogether the house was attractive, though
plain, and Jennie was happy to know that her family could be
comfortable in it.

When the time came for the actual moving Mrs. Gerhardt was fairly
beside herself with joy, for was not this the realization of her
dreams? All through the long years of her life she had been waiting,
and now it had come. A new house, new furniture, plenty of
room--things finer than she had ever even imagined--think of
it! Her eyes shone as she looked at the new beds and tables and
bureaus and whatnots. "Dear, dear, isn't this nice!" she exclaimed.
"Isn't it beautiful!" Jennie smiled and tried to pretend satisfaction
without emotion, but there were tears in her eyes. She was so glad for
her mother's sake. She could have kissed Lester's feet for his
goodness to her family.

The day the furniture was moved in Mrs. Gerhardt, Martha, and
Veronica were on hand to clean and arrange things. At the sight of the
large rooms and pretty yard, bare enough in winter, but giving promise
of a delightful greenness in spring, and the array of new furniture
standing about in excelsior, the whole family fell into a fever of
delight. Such beauty, such spaciousness! George rubbed his feet over
the new carpets and Bass examined the quality of the furniture
critically. "Swell," was his comment. Mrs. Gerhardt roved to and fro
like a person in a dream. She could not believe that these bright
bedrooms, this beautiful parlor, this handsome dining-room were
actually hers.

Gerhardt came last of all. Although he tried hard not to show it,
he, too, could scarcely refrain from enthusiastic comment. The sight
of an opal-globed chandelier over the dining-room table was the
finishing touch.

"Gas, yet!" he said.

He looked grimly around, under his shaggy eyebrows, at the new
carpets under his feet, the long oak extension table covered with a
white cloth and set with new dishes, at the pictures on the walls, the
bright, clean kitchen. He shook his head. "By chops, it's fine!" he
said. "It's very nice. Yes, it's very nice. We want to be careful now
not to break anything. It's so easy to scratch things up, and then
it's all over." Yes, even Gerhardt was satisfied.




CHAPTER XXVI


It would be useless to chronicle the events of the three years that
followed--events and experiences by which the family grew from an
abject condition of want to a state of comparative self-reliance,
based, of course, on the obvious prosperity of Jennie and the
generosity (through her) of her distant husband. Lester was seen now
and then, a significant figure, visiting Cleveland, and sometimes
coming out to the house where he occupied with Jennie the two best
rooms of the second floor. There were hurried trips on her
part--in answer to telegraph massages--to Chicago, to St.
Louis, to New York. One of his favorite pastimes was to engage
quarters at the great resorts--Hot Springs, Mt. Clemens,
Saratoga--and for a period of a week or two at a stretch enjoy
the luxury of living with Jennie as his wife. There were other times
when he would pass through Cleveland only for the privilege of seeing
her for a day. All the time he was aware that he was throwing on her
the real burden of a rather difficult situation, but he did not see
how he could remedy it at this time. He was not sure as yet that he
really wanted to. They were getting along fairly well.

The attitude of the Gerhardt family toward this condition of
affairs was peculiar. At first, in spite of the irregularity of it, it
seemed natural enough. Jennie said she was married. No one had seen
her marriage certificate, but she said so, and she seemed to carry
herself with the air of one who holds that relationship. Still, she
never went to Cincinnati, where his family lived, and none of his
relatives ever came near her. Then, too, his attitude, in spite of the
money which had first blinded them, was peculiar. He really did not
carry himself like a married man. He was so indifferent. There were
weeks in which she appeared to receive only perfunctory notes. There
were times when she would only go away for a few days to meet him.
Then there were the long periods in which she absented
herself--the only worthwhile testimony toward a real
relationship, and that, in a way, unnatural.

Bass, who had grown to be a young man of twenty-five, with some
business judgment and a desire to get out in the world, was
suspicious. He had come to have a pretty keen knowledge of life, and
intuitively he felt that things were not right. George, nineteen, who
had gained a slight foothold in a wall-paper factory and was looking
forward to a career in that field, was also restless. He felt that
something was wrong. Martha, seventeen, was still in school, as were
William and Veronica. Each was offered an opportunity to study
indefinitely; but there was unrest with life. They knew about Jennie's
child. The neighbors were obviously drawing conclusions for
themselves. They had few friends. Gerhardt himself finally concluded
that there was something wrong, but he had let himself into this
situation, and was not in much of a position now to raise an argument.
He wanted to ask her at times--proposed to make her do better if
he could--but the worst had already been done. It depended on the
man now, he knew that.

Things were gradually nearing a state where a general upheaval
would have taken place had not life stepped in with one of its
fortuitous solutions. Mrs. Gerhardt's health failed. Although stout
and formerly of a fairly active disposition, she had of late years
become decidedly sedentary in her habits and grown weak, which,
coupled with a mind naturally given to worry, and weighed upon as it
had been by a number of serious and disturbing ills, seemed now to
culminate in a slow but very certain case of systemic poisoning. She
became decidedly sluggish in her motions, wearied more quickly at the
few tasks left for her to do, and finally complained to Jennie that it
was very hard for her to climb stairs. "I'm not feeling well," she
said. "I think I'm going to be sick."

Jennie now took alarm and proposed to take her to some near-by
watering-place, but Mrs. Gerhardt wouldn't go. "I don't think it would
do any good," she said. She sat about or went driving with her
daughter, but the fading autumn scenery depressed her. "I don't like
to get sick in the fall," she said. "The leaves coming down make me
think I am never going to get well."

"Oh, ma, how you talk!" said Jennie; but she felt frightened,
nevertheless.

How much the average home depends upon the mother was seen when it
was feared the end was near. Bass, who had thought of getting married
and getting out of this atmosphere, abandoned the idea temporarily.
Gerhardt, shocked and greatly depressed, hung about like one expectant
of and greatly awed by the possibility of disaster. Jennie, too
inexperienced in death to feel that she could possibly lose her
mother, felt as if somehow her living depended on her. Hoping in spite
of all opposing circumstances, she hung about, a white figure of
patience, waiting and serving.

The end came one morning after a month of illness and several days
of unconsciousness, during which silence reigned in the house and all
the family went about on tiptoe. Mrs. Gerhardt passed away with her
dying gaze fastened on Jennie's face for the last few minutes of
consciousness that life vouchsafed her. Jennie stared into her eyes
with a yearning horror. "Oh, mamma! mamma!" she cried. "Oh no,
no!"

Gerhardt came running in from the yard, and, throwing himself down
by the bedside, wrung his bony hands in anguish. "I should have gone
first!" he cried. "I should have gone first!"

The death of Mrs. Gerhardt hastened the final breaking up of the
family. Bass was bent on getting married at once, having had a girl in
town for some time. Martha, whose views of life had broadened and
hardened, was anxious to get out also. She felt that a sort of stigma
attached to the home--to herself, in fact, so long as she
remained there. Martha looked to the public schools as a source of
income; she was going to be a teacher. Gerhardt alone scarcely knew
which way to turn. He was again at work as a night watchman. Jennie
found him crying one day alone in the kitchen, and immediately burst
into tears herself. "Now, papa!" she pleaded, "it isn't as bad as
that. You will always have a home--you know that--as long as
I have anything. You can come with me."

"No, no," he protested. He really did not want to go with her. "It
isn't that," he continued. "My whole life comes to nothing."

It was some little time before Bass, George and Martha finally
left, but, one by one, they got out, leaving Jennie, her father,
Veronica, and William, and one other--Jennie's child. Of course
Lester knew nothing of Vesta's parentage, and curiously enough he had
never seen the little girl. During the short periods in which he
deigned to visit the house--two or three days at most--Mrs.
Gerhardt took good care that Vesta was kept in the background. There
was a play-room on the top floor, and also a bedroom there, and
concealment was easy. Lester rarely left his rooms, he even had his
meals served to him in what might have been called the living-room of
the suite. He was not at all inquisitive or anxious to meet any one of
the other members of the family. He was perfectly willing to shake
hands with them or to exchange a few perfunctory words, but
perfunctory words only. It was generally understood that the child
must not appear, and so it did not.

There is an inexplicable sympathy between old age and childhood, an
affinity which is as lovely as it is pathetic. During that first year
in Lorrie Street, when no one was looking, Gerhardt often carried
Vesta about on his shoulders and pinched her soft, red cheeks. When
she got old enough to walk he it was who, with a towel fastened
securely under her arms, led her patiently around the room until she
was able to take a few steps of her own accord. When she actually
reached the point where she could walk he was the one who coaxed her
to the effort, shyly, grimly, but always lovingly. By some strange
leading of fate this stigma on his family's honor, this blotch on
conventional morality, had twined its helpless baby fingers about the
tendons of his heart. He loved this little outcast ardently,
hopefully. She was the one bright ray in a narrow, gloomy life, and
Gerhardt early took upon himself the responsibility of her education
in religious matters. Was it not he who had insisted that the infant
should be baptized?

"Say 'Our Father,'" he used to demand of the lisping infant when he
had her alone with him.

"Ow Fowvaw," was her vowel-like interpretation of his words.

"'Who art in heaven.'"

"'Ooh ah in aven,'" repeated the child.

"Why do you teach her so early?" pleaded Mrs. Gerhardt, overhearing
the little one's struggles with stubborn consonants and vowels.

"Because I want she should learn the Christian faith," returned
Gerhardt determinedly. "She ought to know her prayers. If she don't
begin now she never will know them."

Mrs. Gerhardt smiled. Many of her husband's religious
idiosyncrasies were amusing to her. At the same time she liked to see
this sympathetic interest he was taking in the child's upbringing. If
he were only not so hard, so narrow at times. He made himself a
torment to himself and to every one else.

On the earliest bright morning of returning spring he was wont to
take her for her first little journeys in the world. "Come, now," he
would say, "we will go for a little walk."

"Walk," chirped Vesta.

"Yes, walk," echoed Gerhardt.

Mrs. Gerhardt would fasten on one of her little hoods, for in these
days Jennie kept Vesta's wardrobe beautifully replete. Taking her by
the hand, Gerhardt would issue forth, satisfied to drag first one foot
and then the other in order to accommodate his gait to her toddling
steps.

One beautiful May day, when Vesta was four years old, they started
on one of their walks. Everywhere nature was budding and bourgeoning;
the birds twittering their arrival from the south; the insects making
the best of their brief span of life. Sparrows chirped in the road;
robins strutted upon the grass; bluebirds built in the eaves of the
cottages. Gerhardt took a keen delight in pointing out the wonders of
nature to Vesta, and she was quick to respond. Every new sight and
sound interested her.

"Ooh!--ooh!" exclaimed Vesta, catching sight of a low,
flashing touch of red as a robin lighted upon a twig nearby. Her hand
was up, and her eyes were wide open.

"Yes," said Gerhardt, as happy as if he himself had but newly
discovered this marvelous creature. "Robin. Bird. Robin. Say
robin."

"Wobin," said Vesta.

"Yes, robin," he answered. "It is going to look for a worm now. We
will see if we cannot find its nest. I think I saw a nest in one of
these trees."

He plodded peacefully on, seeking to rediscover an old abandoned
nest that he had observed on a former walk. "Here it is," he said at
last, coming to a small and leafless tree, in which a winter-beaten
remnant of a home was still clinging. "Here, come now, see," and he
lifted the baby up at arm's length.

"See," said Gerhardt, indicating the wisp of dead grasses with his
free hand, "nest. That is a bird's nest. See!"

"Ooh!" repeated Vesta, imitating his pointing finger with one of
her own. "Ness--ooh!"

"Yes," said Gerhardt, putting her down again. "That was a wren's
nest. They have all gone now. They will not come any more."

Still further they plodded, he unfolding the simple facts of life,
she wondering with the wide wonder of a child. When they had gone a
block or two he turned slowly about as if the end of the world had
been reached.

"We must be going back!" he said.

And so she had come to her fifth year, growing in sweetness,
intelligence, and vivacity. Gerhardt was fascinated by the questions
she asked, the puzzles she pronounced. "Such a girl!" he would exclaim
to his wife. "What is it she doesn't want to know? 'Where is God? What
does He do? Where does He keep His feet?" she asks me. "I gotta laugh
sometimes." From rising in the morning, to dress her to laying her
down at night after she had said her prayers, she came to be the chief
solace and comfort of his days. Without Vesta, Gerhardt would have
found his life hard indeed to bear.




CHAPTER XXVII


For three years now Lester had been happy in the companionship of
Jennie. Irregular as the connection might be in the eyes of the church
and of society, it had brought him peace and comfort, and he was
perfectly satisfied with the outcome of the experiment. His interest
in the social affairs of Cincinnati was now practically nil, and he
had consistently refused to consider any matrimonial proposition which
had himself as the object. He looked on his father's business
organization as offering a real chance for himself if he could get
control of it; but he saw no way of doing so. Robert's interests were
always in the way, and, if anything, the two brothers were farther
apart than ever in their ideas and aims. Lester had thought once or
twice of entering some other line of business or of allying himself
with another carriage company, but he did not feel that ha could
conscientiously do this. Lester had his salary--fifteen thousand
a year as secretary and treasurer of the company (his brother was
vice-president)--and about five thousand from some outside
investments. He had not been so lucky or so shrewd in speculation as
Robert had been; aside from the principal which yielded his five
thousand, he had nothing. Robert, on the other hand, was
unquestionably worth between three and four hundred thousand dollars,
in addition to his future interest in the business, which both
brothers shrewdly suspected would be divided somewhat in their favor.
Robert and Lester would get a fourth each, they thought; their sisters
a sixth. It seemed natural that Kane senior should take this view,
seeing that the brothers were actually in control and doing the work.
Still, there was no certainty. The old gentleman might do anything or
nothing. The probabilities were that he would be very fair and
liberal. At the same time, Robert was obviously beating Lester in the
game of life. What did Lester intend to do about it?

There comes a time in every thinking man's life when he pauses and
"takes stock" of his condition; when he asks himself how it fares with
his individuality as a whole, mental, moral, physical, material. This
time comes after the first heedless flights of youth have passed, when
the initiative and more powerful efforts have been made, and he begins
to feel the uncertainty of results and final values which attaches
itself to everything. There is a deadening thought of uselessness
which creeps into many men's minds--the thought which has been
best expressed by the Preacher in Ecclesiastes.

Yet Lester strove to be philosophical. "What difference does it
make?" he used to say to himself, "whether I live at the White House,
or here at home, or at the Grand Pacific?" But in the very question
was the implication that there were achievements in life which he had
failed to realize in his own career. The White House represented the
rise and success of a great public character. His home and the Grand
Pacific were what had come to him without effort.

He decided for the time being--it was about the period of the
death of Jennie's mother--that he would make some effort to
rehabilitate himself. He would cut out idling--these numerous
trips with Jennie had cost him considerable time. He would make some
outside investments. If his brother could find avenues of financial
profit, so could he. He would endeavor to assert his
authority--he would try to make himself of more importance in the
business, rather than let Robert gradually absorb everything. Should
he forsake Jennie?--that thought also, came to him. She had no
claim on him. She could make no protest. Somehow he did not see how it
could be done. It seemed cruel, useless; above all (though he disliked
to admit it) it would be uncomfortable for himself. He liked
her--loved her, perhaps, in a selfish way. He didn't see how he
could desert her very well.

Just at this time he had a really serious difference with Robert.
His brother wanted to sever relations with an old and well established
paint company in New York, which had manufactured paints especially
for the house, and invest in a new concern in Chicago, which was
growing and had a promising future. Lester, knowing the members of the
Eastern firm, their reliability, their long and friendly relations
with the house, was in opposition. His father at first seemed to agree
with Lester. But Robert argued out the question in his cold, logical
way, his blue eyes fixed uncompromisingly upon his brother's face. "We
can't go on forever," he said, "standing by old friends, just because
father here has dealt with them, or you like them. We must have a
change. The business must be stiffened up; we're going to have more
and stronger competition."

"It's just as father feels about it," said Lester at last. "I have
no deep feeling in the matter. It won't hurt me one way or the other.
You say the house is going to profit eventually. I've stated the
arguments on the other side."

"I'm inclined to think Robert is right," said Archibald Kane
calmly. "Most of the things he has suggested so far have worked
out."

Lester colored. "Well, we won't have any more discussion about it
then," he said. He rose and strolled out of the office.

The shock of this defeat, coming at a time when he was considering
pulling himself together, depressed Lester considerably. It wasn't
much but it was a straw, and his father's remark about his brother's
business acumen was even more irritating. He was beginning to wonder
whether his father would discriminate in any way in the distribution
of the property. Had he heard anything about his entanglement with
Jennie? Had he resented the long vacations he had taken from business?
It did not appear to Lester that he could be justly chargeable with
either incapacity or indifference, so far as the company was
concerned. He had done his work well. He was still the investigator of
propositions put up to the house, the student of contracts, the
trusted adviser of his father and mother--but he was being
worsted. Where would it end? He thought about this, but could reach no
conclusion.

Later in this same year Robert came forward with a plan for
reorganization in the executive department of the business. He
proposed that they should build an immense exhibition and storage
warehouse on Michigan Avenue in Chicago, and transfer a portion of
their completed stock there. Chicago was more central than Cincinnati.
Buyers from the West and country merchants could be more easily
reached and dealt with there. It would be a big advertisement for the
house, a magnificent evidence of its standing and prosperity. Kane
senior and Lester immediately approved of this. Both saw its
advantages. Robert suggested that Lester should undertake the
construction of the new buildings. It would probably be advisable for
him to reside in Chicago a part of the time.

The idea appealed to Lester, even though it took him away from
Cincinnati, largely if not entirely. It was dignified and not
unrepresentative of his standing in the company. He could live in
Chicago and he could have Jennie with him. The scheme he had for
taking an apartment could now be arranged without difficulty. He voted
yes. Robert smiled. "I'm sure we'll get good results from this all
around," he said.

As construction work was soon to begin, Lester decided to move to
Chicago immediately. He sent word for Jennie to meet him, and together
they selected an apartment on the North Side, a very comfortable suite
of rooms on a side street near the lake, and he had it fitted up to
suit his taste. He figured that living in Chicago he could pose as a
bachelor. He would never need to invite his friends to his rooms.
There were his offices, where he could always be found, his clubs and
the hotels. To his way of thinking the arrangement was practically
ideal.

Of course Jennie's departure from Cleveland brought the affairs of
the Gerhardt family to a climax. Probably the home would be broken up,
but Gerhardt himself took the matter philosophically. He was an old
man, and it did not matter much where he lived. Bass, Martha, and
George were already taking care of themselves. Veronica and William
were still in school, but some provision could be made for boarding
them with a neighbor. The one real concern of Jennie and Gerhardt was
Vesta. It was Gerhardt's natural thought that Jennie must take the
child with her. What else should a mother do?

"Have you told him yet?" he asked her, when the day of her
contemplated departure had been set.

"No; but I'm going to soon," she assured him.

"Always soon," he said.

He shook his head. His throat swelled.

"It's too bad," he went on. "It's a great sin. God will punish you,
I'm afraid. The child needs some one. I'm getting old--otherwise
I would keep her. There is no one here all day now to look after her
right, as she should be." Again he shook his head.

"I know," said Jennie weakly. "I'm going to fix it now. I'm going
to have her live with me soon. I won't neglect her--you know
that."

"But the child's name," he insisted. "She should have a name. Soon
in another year she goes to school. People will want to know who she
is. It can't go on forever like this."

Jennie understood well enough that it couldn't. She was crazy about
her baby. The heaviest cross she had to bear was the constant
separations and the silence she was obliged to maintain about Vesta's
very existence. It did seem unfair to the child, and yet Jennie did
not see clearly how she could have acted otherwise. Vesta had good
clothes, everything she needed. She was at least comfortable. Jennie
hoped to give her a good education. If only she had told the truth to
Lester in the first place. Now it was almost too late, and yet she
felt that she had acted for the best. Finally she decided to find some
good woman or family in Chicago who would take charge of Vesta for a
consideration. In a Swedish colony to the west of La Salle Avenue she
came across an old lady who seemed to embody all the virtues she
required--cleanliness, simplicity, honesty. She was a widow,
doing work by the day, but she was glad to make an arrangement by
which she should give her whole time to Vesta. The latter was to go to
kindergarten when a suitable one should be found. She was to have toys
and kindly attention, and Mrs. Olsen was to inform Jennie of any
change in the child's health. Jennie proposed to call every day, and
she thought that sometimes, when Lester was out of town, Vesta might
be brought to the apartment. She had had her with her at Cleveland,
and he had never found out anything.

The arrangements completed, Jennie returned at the first
opportunity to Cleveland to take Vesta away. Gerhardt, who had been
brooding over his approaching loss, appeared most solicitous about her
future. "She should grow up to be a fine girl," he said. "You should
give her a good education--she is so smart." He spoke of the
advisability of sending her to a Lutheran school and church, but
Jennie was not so sure of that. Time and association with Lester had
led her to think that perhaps the public school was better than any
private institution. She had no particular objection to the church,
but she no longer depended upon its teachings as a guide in the
affairs of life. Why should she?

The next day it was necessary for Jennie to return to Chicago.
Vesta, excited and eager, was made ready for the journey. Gerhardt had
been wandering about, restless as a lost spirit, while the process of
dressing was going on; now that the hour had actually struck he was
doing his best to control his feelings. He could see that the
five-year-old child had no conception of what it meant to him. She was
happy and self-interested, chattering about the ride and the
train.

"Be a good little girl," he said, lifting her up and kissing her.
"See that you study your catechism and say your prayers. And you won't
forget the grandpa--what?--" He tried to go on, but his
voice failed him.

Jennie, whose heart ached for her father, choked back her emotion.
"There," she said, "if I'd thought you were going to act like
that--" She stopped.

"Go," said Gerhardt, manfully, "go. It is best this way." And he
stood solemnly by as they went out of the door. Then he turned back to
his favorite haunt, the kitchen, and stood there staring at the floor.
One by one they were leaving him--Mrs. Gerhardt, Bass, Martha,
Jennie, Vesta. He clasped his hands together, after his old-time
fashion, and shook his head again and again. "So it is! So it is!" he
repeated. "They all leave me. All my life goes to pieces."




CHAPTER XXVIII


During the three years in which Jennie and Lester had been
associated there had grown up between them a strong feeling of mutual
sympathy and understanding. Lester truly loved her in his own way. It
was a strong, self-satisfying, determined kind of way, based solidly
on a big natural foundation, but rising to a plane of genuine
spiritual affinity. The yielding sweetness of her character both
attracted and held him. She was true, and good, and womanly to the
very center of her being; he had learned to trust her, to depend upon
her, and the feeling had but deepened with the passing of the
years.

On her part Jennie had sincerely, deeply, truly learned to love
this man. At first when he had swept her off her feet, overawed her
soul, and used her necessity as a chain wherewith to bind her to him,
she was a little doubtful, a little afraid of him, although she had
always liked him. Now, however, by living with him, by knowing him
better, by watching his moods, she had come to love him. He was so
big, so vocal, so handsome. His point of view and opinions of anything
and everything were so positive. His pet motto, "Hew to the line, let
the chips fall where they may," had clung in her brain as something
immensely characteristic. Apparently he was not afraid of
anything--God, man, or devil. He used to look at her, holding her
chin between the thumb and fingers of his big brown hand, and say:
"You're sweet, all right, but you need courage and defiance. You
haven't enough of those things." And her eyes would meet his in dumb
appeal. "Never mind," he would add, "you have other things." And then
he would kiss her.

One of the most appealing things to Lester was the simple way in
which she tried to avoid exposure of her various social and
educational shortcomings. She could not write very well, and once he
found a list of words he had used written out on a piece of paper with
the meanings opposite. He smiled, but he liked her better for it.
Another time in the Southern hotel in St. Louis he watched her
pretending a loss of appetite because she thought that her lack of
table manners was being observed by nearby diners. She could not
always be sure of the right forks and knives, and the strange-looking
dishes bothered her; how did one eat asparagus and artichokes?

"Why don't you eat something?" he asked good-naturedly. "You're
hungry, aren't you?"

"Not very."

"You must be. Listen, Jennie. I know what it is. You mustn't feel
that way. Your manners are all right. I wouldn't bring you here if
they weren't. Your instincts are all right. Don't be uneasy. I'd tell
you quick enough when there was anything wrong." His brown eyes held a
friendly gleam.

She smiled gratefully. "I do feel a little nervous at times," she
admitted.

"Don't," he repeated. "You're all right. Don't worry. I'll show
you." And he did.

By degrees Jennie grew into an understanding of the usages and
customs of comfortable existence. All that the Gerhardt family had
ever had were the bare necessities of life. Now she was surrounded
with whatever she wanted--trunks, clothes, toilet articles, the
whole varied equipment of comfort--and while she liked it all, it
did not upset her sense of proportion and her sense of the fitness of
things. There was no element of vanity in her, only a sense of joy in
privilege and opportunity. She was grateful to Lester for all that he
had done and was doing for her. If only she could hold
him--always!

The details of getting Vesta established once adjusted, Jennie
settled down into the routine of home life. Lester, busy about his
multitudinous affairs, was in and out. He had a suite of rooms
reserved for himself at the Grand Pacific, which was then the
exclusive hotel of Chicago, and this was his ostensible residence. His
luncheon and evening appointments were kept at the Union Club. An
early patron of the telephone, he had one installed in the apartment,
so that he could reach Jennie quickly and at any time. He was home two
or three nights a week, sometimes oftener. He insisted at first on
Jennie having a girl of general housework, but acquiesced in the more
sensible arrangement which she suggested later of letting some one
come in to do the cleaning. She liked to work around her own home. Her
natural industry and love of order prompted this feeling.

Lester liked his breakfast promptly at eight in the morning. He
wanted dinner served nicely at seven. Silverware, cut glass, imported
china--all the little luxuries of life appealed to him. He kept
his trunks and wardrobe at the apartment.

During the first few months everything went smoothly. He was in the
habit of taking Jennie to the theater now and then, and if he chanced
to run across an acquaintance he always introduced her as Miss
Gerhardt. When he registered her as his wife it was usually under an
assumed name; where there was no danger of detection he did not mind
using his own signature. Thus far there had been no difficulty or
unpleasantness of any kind.

The trouble with this situation was that it was criss-crossed with
the danger and consequent worry which the deception in regard to Vesta
had entailed, as well as with Jennie's natural anxiety about her
father and the disorganized home. Jennie feared, as Veronica hinted,
that she and William would go to live with Martha, who was installed
in a boarding-house in Cleveland, and that Gerhardt would be left
alone. He was such a pathetic figure to her, with his injured hands
and his one ability--that of being a watchman--that she was
hurt to think of his being left alone. Would he come to her? She knew
that he would not--feeling as he did at present. Would Lester
have him--she was not sure of that. If he came Vesta would have
to be accounted for. So she worried.

The situation in regard to Vesta was really complicated. Owing to
the feeling that she was doing her daughter a great injustice, Jennie
was particularly sensitive in regard to her, anxious to do a thousand
things to make up for the one great duty that she could not perform.
She daily paid a visit to the home of Mrs. Olsen, always taking with
her toys, candy, or whatever came into her mind as being likely to
interest and please the child. She liked to sit with Vesta and tell
her stories of fairy and giant, which kept the little girl wide-eyed.
At last she went so far as to bring her to the apartment, when Lester
was away visiting his parents, and she soon found it possible, during
his several absences, to do this regularly. After that, as time went
on and she began to know his habits, she became more
bold--although bold is scarcely the word to use in connection
with Jennie. She became venturesome much as a mouse might; she would
risk Vesta's presence on the assurance of even short
absences--two or three days. She even got into the habit of
keeping a few of Vesta's toys at the apartment, so that she could have
something to play with when she came.

During these several visits from her child Jennie could not but
realize the lovely thing life would be were she only an honored wife
and a happy mother. Vesta was a most observant little girl. She could
by her innocent childish questions give a hundred turns to the dagger
of self-reproach which was already planted deeply in Jennie's
heart.

"Can I come to live with you?" was one of her simplest and most
frequently repeated questions. Jennie would reply that mamma could not
have her just yet, but that very soon now, just as soon as she
possibly could, Vesta should come to stay always.

"Don't you know just when?" Vesta would ask.

"No, dearest, not just when. Very soon now. You won't mind waiting
a little while. Don't you like Mrs. Olsen?"

"Yes," replied Vesta; "but then she ain't got any nice things now.
She's just got old things." And Jennie, stricken to the heart, would
take Vesta to the toy shop, and load her down with a new assortment of
playthings.

Of course Lester was not in the least suspicious. His observation
of things relating to the home were rather casual. He went about his
work and his pleasures believing Jennie to be the soul of sincerity
and good-natured service, and it never occurred to him that there was
anything underhanded in her actions. Once he did come home sick in the
afternoon and found her absent--an absence which endured from two
o'clock to five. He was a little irritated and grumbled on her return,
but his annoyance was as nothing to her astonishment and fright when
she found him there. She blanched at the thought of his suspecting
something, and explained as best she could. She had gone to see her
washerwoman. She was slow about her marketing. She didn't dream he was
there. She was sorry, too, that her absence had lost her an
opportunity to serve him. It showed her what a mess she was likely to
make of it all.

It happened that about three weeks after the above occurrence
Lester had occasion to return to Cincinnati for a week, and during
this time Jennie again brought Vesta to the flat; for four days there
was the happiest goings on between the mother and child.

Nothing would have come of this little reunion had it not been for
an oversight on Jennie's part, the far-reaching effects of which she
could only afterward regret. This was the leaving of a little toy lamb
under the large leather divan in the front room, where Lester was wont
to lie and smoke. A little bell held by a thread of blue ribbon was
fastened about its neck, and this tinkled feebly whenever it was
shaken. Vesta, with the unaccountable freakishness of children had
deliberately dropped it behind the divan, an action which Jennie did
not notice at the time. When she gathered up the various playthings
after Vesta's departure she overlooked it entirely, and there it
rested, its innocent eyes still staring upon the sunlit regions of
toyland, when Lester returned.

That same evening, when he was lying on the divan, quietly enjoying
his cigar and his newspaper, he chanced to drop the former, fully
lighted. Wishing to recover it before it should do any damage, he
leaned over and looked under the divan. The cigar was not in sight, so
he rose and pulled the lounge out, a move which revealed to him the
little lamb still standing where Vesta had dropped it. He picked it
up, turning it over and over, and wondering how it had come there.

A lamb! It must belong to some neighbor's child in whom Jennie had
taken an interest, he thought. He would have to go and tease her about
this.

Accordingly he held the toy jovially before him, and, coming out
into the dining-room, where Jennie was working at the sideboard, he
exclaimed in a mock solemn voice, "Where did this come from?"

Jennie, who was totally unconscious of the existence of this
evidence of her duplicity, turned, and was instantly possessed with
the idea that he had suspected all and was about to visit his just
wrath upon her. Instantly the blood flamed in her cheeks and as
quickly left them.

"Why, why!" she stuttered, "it's a little toy I bought."

"I see it is," he returned genially, her guilty tremor not escaping
his observation, but having at the same time no explicable
significance to him. "It's frisking around a mighty lone
sheepfold."

He touched the little bell at its throat, while Jennie stood there,
unable to speak. It tinkled feebly, and then he looked at her again.
His manner was so humorous that she could tell he suspected nothing.
However, it was almost impossible for her to recover her
self-possession.

"What's ailing you?" he asked.

"Nothing," she replied.

"You look as though a lamb was a terrible shock to you."

"I forgot to take it out from there, that was all," she went on
blindly.

"It looks as though it has been played with enough," he added more
seriously, and then seeing that the discussion was evidently painful
to her, he dropped it. The lamb had not furnished him the amusement
that he had expected.

Lester went back into the front room, stretched himself out and
thought it over. Why was she nervous? What was there about a toy to
make her grow pale? Surely there was no harm in her harboring some
youngster of the neighborhood when she was alone--having it come
in and play. Why should she be so nervous? He thought it over, but
could come to no conclusion.

Nothing more was said about the incident of the toy lamb. Time
might have wholly effaced the impression from Lester's memory had
nothing else intervened to arouse his suspicions; but a mishap of any
kind seems invariably to be linked with others which follow close upon
its heels.

One evening when Lester happened to be lingering about the flat
later than usual the door bell rang, and, Jennie being busy in the
kitchen, Lester went himself to open the door. He was greeted by a
middle-aged lady, who frowned very nervously upon him, and inquired in
broken Swedish accents for Jennie.

"Wait a moment," said Lester; and stepping to the rear door he
called her.

Jennie came, and seeing who the visitor was, she stepped nervously
out in the hall and closed the door after her. The action instantly
struck Lester as suspicious. He frowned and determined to inquire
thoroughly into the matter. A moment later Jennie reappeared. Her face
was white and her fingers seemed to be nervously seeking something to
seize upon.

"What's the trouble?" he inquired, the irritation he had felt the
moment before giving his voice a touch of gruffness.

"I've got to go out for a little while," she at last managed to
reply.

"Very well," he assented unwillingly. "But you can tell me what's
the trouble with you, can't you? Where do you have to go?"

"I--I," began Jennie, stammering. "I--have--"

"Yes," he said grimly.

"I have to go on an errand," she stumbled on. "I--I can't
wait. I'll tell you when I come back, Lester. Please don't ask me
now."

She looked vainly at him, her troubled countenance still marked by
preoccupation and anxiety to get away, and Lester, who had never seen
this look of intense responsibility in her before, was moved and
irritated by it.

"That's all right," he said, "but what's the use of all this
secrecy? Why can't you come out and tell what's the matter with you?
What's the use of this whispering behind doors? Where do you have to
go?"

He paused, checked by his own harshness, and Jennie, who was
intensely wrought up by the information she had received, as well as
the unwonted verbal castigation she was now enduring, rose to an
emotional state never reached by her before.

"I will, Lester, I will," she exclaimed. "Only not now. I haven't
time. I'll tell you everything when I come back. Please don't stop me
now."

She hurried to the adjoining chamber to get her wraps, and Lester,
who had even yet no clear conception of what it all meant, followed
her stubbornly to the door.

"See here," he exclaimed in his vigorous, brutal way, "you're not
acting right. What's the matter with you? I want to know."

He stood in the doorway, his whole frame exhibiting the pugnacity
and settled determination of a man who is bound to be obeyed. Jennie,
troubled and driven to bay, turned at last.

"It's my child, Lester," she exclaimed. "It's dying. I haven't time
to talk. Oh, please don't stop me. I'll tell you everything when I
come back."

"Your child!" he exclaimed. "What the hell are you talking
about?"

"I couldn't help it," she returned. "I was afraid--I should
have told you long ago. I meant to only--only--Oh, let me go
now, and I'll tell you all when I come back!"

He stared at her in amazement; then he stepped aside, unwilling to
force her any further for the present. "Well, go ahead," he said
quietly. "Don't you want some one to go along with you?"

"No," she replied. "Mrs. Olsen is right here. I'll go with
her."

She hurried forth, white-faced, and he stood there, pondering.
Could this be the woman he had thought he knew? Why, she had been
deceiving him for years. Jennie! The white-faced! The simple!

He choked a little as he muttered:

"Well, I'll be damned!"




CHAPTER XXIX


The reason why Jennie had been called was nothing more than one of
those infantile seizures the coming and result of which no man can
predict two hours beforehand. Vesta had been seriously taken with
membranous croup only a few hours before, and the development since
had been so rapid that the poor old Swedish mother was half frightened
to death herself, and hastily despatched a neighbor to say that Vesta
was very ill and Mrs. Kane was to come at once. This message,
delivered as it was in a very nervous manner by one whose only object
was to bring her, had induced the soul-racking fear of death in Jennie
and caused her to brave the discovery of Lester in the manner
described. Jennie hurried on anxiously, her one thought being to reach
her child before the arm of death could interfere and snatch it from
her, her mind weighed upon by a legion of fears. What if it should
already be too late when she got there; what if Vesta already should
be no more. Instinctively she quickened her pace and as the street
lamps came and receded in the gloom she forgot all the sting of
Lester's words, all fear that he might turn her out and leave her
alone in a great city with a little child to care for, and remembered
only the fact that her Vesta was very ill, possibly dying, and that
she was the direct cause of the child's absence from her; that perhaps
but for the want of her care and attention Vesta might be well
to-night.

"If I can only get there," she kept saying to herself; and then,
with that frantic unreason which is the chief characteristic of the
instinct-driven mother: "I might have known that God would punish me
for my unnatural conduct. I might have known--I might have
known."

When she reached the gate she fairly sped up the little walk and
into the house, where Vesta was lying pale, quiet, and weak, but
considerably better. Several Swedish neighbors and a middle-aged
physician were in attendance, all of whom looked at her curiously as
she dropped beside the child's bed and spoke to her.

Jennie's mind had been made up. She had sinned, and sinned
grievously, against her daughter, but now she would make amends so far
as possible. Lester was very dear to her, but she would no longer
attempt to deceive him in anything, even if he left her--she felt
an agonized stab, a pain at the thought--she must still do the
one right thing. Vesta must not be an outcast any longer. Her mother
must give her a home. Where Jennie was, there must Vesta be.

Sitting by the bedside in this humble Swedish cottage, Jennie
realized the fruitlessness of her deception, the trouble and pain it
had created in her home, the months of suffering it had given her with
Lester, the agony it had heaped upon her this night--and to what
end? The truth had been discovered anyhow. She sat there and
meditated, not knowing what next was to happen, while Vesta quieted
down, and then went soundly to sleep.

Lester, after recovering from the first heavy import of this
discovery, asked himself some perfectly natural questions. "Who was
the father of the child? How old was it? How did it chance to be in
Chicago, and who was taking care of it?" He could ask, but he could
not answer; he knew absolutely nothing.

Curiously, now, as he thought, his first meeting with Jennie at
Mrs. Bracebridge's came back to him. What was it about her then that
had attracted him? What made him think, after a few hours'
observation, that he could seduce her to do his will? What was
it--moral looseness, or weakness, or what? There must have been
art in the sorry affair, the practised art of the cheat, and, in
deceiving such a confiding nature as his, she had done even more than
practise deception--she had been ungrateful.

Now the quality of ingratitude was a very objectionable thing to
Lester--the last and most offensive trait of a debased nature,
and to be able to discover a trace of it in Jennie was very
disturbing. It is true that she had not exhibited it in any other way
before--quite to the contrary--but nevertheless he saw
strong evidences of it now, and it made him very bitter in his feeling
toward her. How could she be guilty of any such conduct toward him?
Had he not picked her up out of nothing, so to speak, and befriended
her?

He moved from his chair in this silent room and began to pace
slowly to and fro, the weightiness of this subject exercising to the
full his power of decision. She was guilty of a misdeed which he felt
able to condemn. The original concealment was evil; the continued
deception more. Lastly, there was the thought that her love after all
had been divided, part for him, part for the child, a discovery which
no man in his position could contemplate with serenity. He moved
irritably as he thought of it, shoved his hands in his pockets and
walked to and fro across the floor.

That a man of Lester's temperament should consider himself wronged
by Jennie merely because she had concealed a child whose existence was
due to conduct no more irregular than was involved later in the
yielding of herself to him was an example of those inexplicable
perversions of judgment to which the human mind, in its capacity of
keeper of the honor of others, seems permanently committed. Lester,
aside from his own personal conduct (for men seldom judge with that in
the balance), had faith in the ideal that a woman should reveal
herself completely to the one man with whom she is in love; and the
fact that she had not done so was a grief to him. He had asked her
once tentatively about her past. She begged him not to press her. That
was the time she should have spoken of any child. Now--he shook
his head.

His first impulse, after he had thought the thing over, was to walk
out and leave her. At the same time he was curious to hear the end of
this business. He did put on his hat and coat, however, and went out,
stopping at the first convenient saloon to get a drink. He took a car
and went down to the club, strolling about the different rooms and
chatting with several people whom he encountered. He was restless and
irritated; and finally, after three hours of meditation, he took a cab
and returned to his apartment.

The distraught Jennie, sitting by her sleeping child, was at last
made to realize, by its peaceful breathing that all danger was over.
There was nothing more that she could do for Vesta, and now the claims
of the home that she had deserted began to reassert themselves, the
promise to Lester and the need of being loyal to her duties unto the
very end. Lester might possibly be waiting for her. It was just
probable that he wished to hear the remainder of her story before
breaking with her entirely. Although anguished and frightened by the
certainty, as she deemed it, of his forsaking her, she nevertheless
felt that it was no more than she deserved--a just punishment for
all her misdoings.

When Jennie arrived at the flat it was after eleven, and the hall
light was already out. She first tried the door, and then inserted her
key. No one stirred, however, and, opening the door, she entered in
the expectation of seeing Lester sternly confronting her. He was not
there, however. The burning gas had merely been an oversight on his
part. She glanced quickly about, but seeing only the empty room, she
came instantly to the other conclusion, that he had forsaken
her--and so stood there, a meditative, helpless figure.

"Gone!" she thought.

At this moment his footsteps sounded on the stairs. He came in with
his derby hat pulled low over his broad forehead, close to his sandy
eyebrows, and with his overcoat buttoned up closely about his neck. He
took off the coat without looking at Jennie and hung it on the rack.
Then he deliberately took off his hat and hung that up also. When he
was through he turned to where she was watching him with wide
eyes.

"I want to know about this thing now from beginning to end," he
began. "Whose child is that?"

Jennie wavered a moment, as one who might be going to take a leap
in the dark, then opened her lips mechanically and confessed:

"It's Senator Brander's."

"Senator Brander!" echoed Lester, the familiar name of the dead but
still famous statesman ringing with shocking and unexpected force in
his ears. "How did you come to know him?"

"We used to do his washing for him," she rejoined simply--"my
mother and I."

Lester paused, the baldness of the statements issuing from her
sobering even his rancorous mood. "Senator Brander's child," he
thought to himself. So that great representative of the interests of
the common people was the undoer of her--a self-confessed
washerwoman's daughter. A fine tragedy of low life all this was.

"How long ago was this?" he demanded, his face the picture of a
darkling mood.

"It's been nearly six years now," she returned.

He calculated the time that had elapsed since he had known her, and
then continued:

"How old is the child?"

"She's a little over five."

Lester moved a little. The need for serious thought made his tone
more peremptory but less bitter.

"Where have you been keeping her all this time?"

"She was at home until you went to Cincinnati last spring. I went
down and brought her then."

"Was she there the times I came to Cleveland?"

"Yes," said Jennie; "but I didn't let her come out anywhere where
you could see her."

"I thought you said you told your people that you were married," he
exclaimed, wondering how this relationship of the child to the family
could have been adjusted.

"I did," she replied, "but I didn't want to tell you about her.
They thought all the time I intended to."

"Well, why didn't you?"

"Because I was afraid."

"Afraid of what?"

"I didn't know what was going to become of me when I went with you,
Lester. I didn't want to do her any harm if I could help it. I was
ashamed, afterward; when you said you didn't like children I was
afraid."

"Afraid I'd leave you?"

"Yes."

He stopped, the simplicity of her answers removing a part of the
suspicion of artful duplicity which had originally weighed upon him.
After all, there was not so much of that in it as mere wretchedness of
circumstance and cowardice of morals. What a family she must have!
What queer non-moral natures they must have to have brooked any such a
combination of affairs!

"Didn't you know that you'd be found out in the long run?" he at
last demanded. "Surely you might have seen that you couldn't raise her
that way. Why didn't you tell me in the first place? I wouldn't have
thought anything of it then."

"I know," she said. "I wanted to protect her."

"Where is she now?" he asked.

Jennie explained.

She stood there, the contradictory aspect of these questions and of
his attitude puzzling even herself. She did try to explain them after
a time, but all Lester could gain was that she had blundered along
without any artifice at all--a condition that was so manifest
that, had he been in any other position than that he was, he might
have pitied her. As it was, the revelation concerning Brander was
hanging over him, and he finally returned to that.

"You say your mother used to do washing for him. How did you come
to get in with him?"

Jennie, who until now had borne his questions with unmoving pain,
winced at this. He was now encroaching upon the period that was by far
the most distressing memory of her life. What he had just asked seemed
to be a demand upon her to make everything clear.

"I was so young, Lester," she pleaded. "I was only eighteen. I
didn't know. I used to go to the hotel where he was stopping and get
his laundry, and at the end of the week I'd take it to him again."

She paused, and as he took a chair, looking as if he expected to
hear the whole story, she continued: "We were so poor. He used to give
me money to give to my mother. I didn't know."

She paused again, totally unable to go on, and he, seeing that it
would be impossible for her to explain without prompting, took up his
questioning again--eliciting by degrees the whole pitiful story.
Brander had intended to marry her. He had written to her, but before
he could come to her he died.

The confession was complete. It was followed by a period of five
minutes, in which Lester said nothing at all; he put his arm on the
mantel and stared at the wall, while Jennie waited, not knowing what
would follow--not wishing to make a single plea. The clock ticked
audibly. Lester's face betrayed no sign of either thought or feeling.
He was now quite calm, quite sober, wondering what he should do.
Jennie was before him as the criminal at the bar. He, the righteous,
the moral, the pure of heart, was in the judgment seat. Now to
sentence her--to make up his mind what course of action he should
pursue.

It was a disagreeable tangle, to be sure, something that a man of
his position and wealth really ought not to have anything to do with.
This child, the actuality of it, put an almost unbearable face upon
the whole matter--and yet he was not quite prepared to speak. He
turned after a time, the silvery tinkle of the French clock on the
mantel striking three and causing him to become aware of Jennie, pale,
uncertain, still standing as she had stood all this while.

"Better go to bed," he said at last, and fell again to pondering
this difficult problem.

But Jennie continued to stand there wide-eyed, expectant, ready to
hear at any moment his decision as to her fate. She waited in vain,
however. After a long time of musing he turned and went to the
clothes-rack near the door.

"Better go to bed," he said, indifferently. "I'm going out."

She turned instinctively, feeling that even in this crisis there
was some little service that she might render, but he did not see her.
He went out, vouchsafing no further speech.

She looked after him, and as his footsteps sounded on the stair she
felt as if she were doomed and hearing her own death-knell. What had
she done? What would he do now? She stood there a dissonance of
despair, and when the lower door clicked moved her hand out of the
agony of her suppressed hopelessness.

"Gone!" she thought. "Gone!"

In the light of a late dawn she was still sitting there pondering,
her state far too urgent for idle tears.




CHAPTER XXX


The sullen, philosophic Lester was not so determined upon his
future course of action as he appeared to be. Stern as was his mood,
he did not see, after all, exactly what grounds he had for complaint.
And yet the child's existence complicated matters considerably. He did
not like to see the evidence of Jennie's previous misdeeds walking
about in the shape of a human being; but, as a matter of fact, he
admitted to himself that long ago he might have forced Jennie's story
out of her if he had gone about it in earnest. She would not have
lied, he knew that. At the very outset he might have demanded the
history of her past. He had not done so; well, now it was too late.
The one thing it did fix in his mind was that it would be useless to
ever think of marrying her. It couldn't be done, not by a man in his
position. The best solution of the problem was to make reasonable
provision for Jennie and then leave her. He went to his hotel with his
mind made up, but he did not actually say to himself that he would do
it at once.

It is an easy thing for a man to theorize in a situation of this
kind, quite another to act. Our comforts, appetites and passions grow
with usage, and Jennie was not only a comfort, but an appetite, with
him. Almost four years of constant association had taught him so much
about her and himself that he was not prepared to let go easily or
quickly. It was too much of a wrench. He could think of it bustling
about the work of a great organization during the daytime, but when
night came it was a different matter. He could be lonely, too, he
discovered much to his surprise, and it disturbed him.

One of the things that interested him in this situation was
Jennie's early theory that the intermingling of Vesta with him and her
in this new relationship would injure the child. Just how did she come
by that feeling, he wanted to know? His place in the world was better
than hers, yet it dawned on him after a time that there might have
been something in her point of view. She did not know who he was or
what he would do with her. He might leave her shortly. Being
uncertain, she wished to protect her baby. That wasn't so bad. Then
again, he was curious to know what the child was like. The daughter of
a man like Senator Brander might be somewhat of an infant. He was a
brilliant man and Jennie was a charming woman. He thought of this,
and, while it irritated him, it aroused his curiosity. He ought to go
back and see the child--he was really entitled to a view of
it--but he hesitated because of his own attitude in the
beginning. It seemed to him that he really ought to quit, and here he
was parleying with himself.

The truth was that he couldn't. These years of living with Jennie
had made him curiously dependent upon her. Who had ever been so close
to him before? His mother loved him, but her attitude toward him had
not so much to do with real love as with ambition. His
father--well, his father was a man, like himself. All of his
sisters were distinctly wrapped up in their own affairs; Robert and he
were temperamentally uncongenial. With Jennie he had really been
happy, he had truly lived. She was necessary to him; the longer he
stayed away from her the more he wanted her. He finally decided to
have a straight-out talk with her, to arrive at some sort of
understanding. She ought to get the child and take care of it. She
must understand that he might eventually want to quit. She ought to be
made to feel that a definite change had taken place, though no
immediate break might occur. That same evening he went out to the
apartment. Jennie heard him enter, and her heart began to flutter.
Then she took her courage in both hands, and went to meet him.

"There's just one thing to be done about this as far as I can see,"
began Lester, with characteristic directness.

"Get the child and bring her here where you can take care of her.
There's no use leaving her in the hands of strangers."

"I will, Lester," said Jennie submissively. "I always wanted
to."

"Very well, then, you'd better do it at once." He took an evening
newspaper out of his pocket and strolled toward one of the front
windows; then he turned to her. "You and I might as well understand
each other, Jennie," he went on. "I can see how this thing came about.
It was a piece of foolishness on my part not to have asked you before,
and made you tell me. It was silly for you to conceal it, even if you
didn't want the child's life mixed with mine. You might have known
that it couldn't be done. That's neither here nor there, though, now.
The thing that I want to point out is that one can't live and hold a
relationship such as ours without confidence. You and I had that, I
thought. I don't see my way clear to ever hold more than a tentative
relationship with you on this basis. The thing is too tangled. There's
too much cause for scandal."

"I know," said Jennie.

"Now, I don't propose to do anything hasty. For my part I don't see
why things can't go on about as they are--certainly for the
present--but I want you to look the facts in the face."

Jennie sighed. "I know, Lester," she said, "I know."

He went to the window and stared out. There were some trees in the
yard, where the darkness was settling. He wondered how this would
really come out, for he liked a home atmosphere. Should he leave the
apartment and go to his club?

"You'd better get the dinner," he suggested, after a time, turning
toward her irritably; but he did not feel so distant as he looked. It
was a shame that life could not be more decently organized. He
strolled back to his lounge, and Jennie went about her duties. She was
thinking of Vesta, of her ungrateful attitude toward Lester, of his
final decision never to marry her. So that was how one dream had been
wrecked by folly.

She spread the table, lighted the pretty silver candles, made his
favorite biscuit, put a small leg of lamb in the oven to roast, and
washed some lettuce-leaves for a salad. She had been a diligent
student of a cook-book for some time, and she had learned a good deal
from her mother. All the time she was wondering how the situation
would work out. He would leave her eventually--no doubt of that.
He would go away and marry some one else.

"Oh, well," she thought finally, "he is not going to leave me right
away--that is something. And I can bring Vesta here." She sighed
as she carried the things to the table. If life would only give her
Lester and Vesta together--but that hope was over.




CHAPTER XXXI


There was peace and quiet for some time after this storm. Jennie
went the next day and brought Vesta away with her. The joy of the
reunion between mother and child made up for many other worries. "Now
I can do by her as I ought," she thought; and three or four times
during the day she found herself humming a little song.

Lester came only occasionally at first. He was trying to make
himself believe that he ought to do something toward reforming his
life--toward bringing about that eventual separation which he had
suggested. He did not like the idea of a child being in this
apartment--particularly that particular child. He fought his way
through a period of calculated neglect, and then began to return to
the apartment more regularly. In spite of all its drawbacks, it was a
place of quiet, peace, and very notable personal comfort.

During the first days of Lester's return it was difficult for
Jennie to adjust matters so as to keep the playful, nervous, almost
uncontrollable child from annoying the staid, emphatic,
commercial-minded man. Jennie gave Vesta a severe talking to the first
night Lester telephoned that he was coming, telling her that he was a
very bad-tempered man who didn't like children, and that she mustn't
go near him. "You mustn't talk," she said. "You mustn't ask questions.
Let mamma ask you what you want. And don't reach, ever."

Vesta agreed solemnly, but her childish mind hardly grasped the
full significance of the warning.

Lester came at seven. Jennie, who had taken great pains to array
Vesta as attractively as possible, had gone into her bedroom to give
her own toilet a last touch. Vesta was supposedly in the kitchen. As a
matter of fact, she had followed her mother to the door of the
sitting-room, where now she could be plainly seen. Lester hung up his
hat and coat, then, turning, he caught his first glimpse. The child
looked very sweet--he admitted that at a glance. She was arrayed
in a blue-dotted, white flannel dress, with a soft roll collar and
cuffs, and the costume was completed by white stockings and shoes. Her
corn-colored ringlets hung gaily about her face. Blue eyes, rosy lips,
rosy cheeks completed the picture. Lester stared, almost inclined to
say something, but restrained himself. Vesta shyly retreated.

When Jennie came out he commented on the fact that Vesta had
arrived. "Rather sweet-looking child," he said. "Do you have much
trouble in making her mind?"

"Not much," she returned.

Jennie went on to the dining-room, and Lester overheard a scrap of
their conversation.

"Who are he?" asked Vesta.

"Sh! That's your Uncle Lester. Didn't I tell you you mustn't
talk?"

"Are he your uncle?"

"No, dear. Don't talk now. Run into the kitchen."

"Are he only my uncle?"

"Yes. Now run along."

"All right."

In spite of himself Lester had to smile.

What might have followed if the child had been homely, misshapen,
peevish, or all three, can scarcely be conjectured. Had Jennie been
less tactful, even in the beginning, he might have obtained a
disagreeable impression. As it was, the natural beauty of the child,
combined with the mother's gentle diplomacy in keeping her in the
background, served to give him that fleeting glimpse of innocence and
youth which is always pleasant. The thought struck him that Jennie had
been the mother of a child all these years; she had been separated
from it for months at a time; she had never even hinted at its
existence, and yet her affection for Vesta was obviously great. "It's
queer," he said. "She's a peculiar woman."

One morning Lester was sitting in the parlor reading his paper when
he thought he heard something stir. He turned, and was surprised to
see a large blue eye fixed upon him through the crack of a neighboring
door--the effect was most disconcerting. It was not like the
ordinary eye, which, under such embarrassing circumstances, would have
been immediately withdrawn; it kept its position with deliberate
boldness. He turned his paper solemnly and looked again. There was the
eye. He turned it again. Still was the eye present. He crossed his
legs and looked again. Now the eye was gone.

This little episode, unimportant in itself, was yet informed with
the saving grace of comedy, a thing to which Lester was especially
responsive. Although not in the least inclined to relax his attitude
of aloofness, he found his mind, in the minutest degree, tickled by
the mysterious appearance; the corners of his mouth were animated by a
desire to turn up. He did not give way to the feeling, and stuck by
his paper, but the incident remained very clearly in his mind. The
young wayfarer had made her first really important impression upon
him.

Not long after this Lester was sitting one morning at breakfast,
calmly eating his chop and conning his newspaper, when he was aroused
by another visitation--this time not quite so simple. Jennie had
given Vesta her breakfast, and set her to amuse herself alone until
Lester should leave the house. Jennie was seated at the table, pouring
out the coffee, when Vesta suddenly appeared, very business-like in
manner, and marched through the room. Lester looked up, and Jennie
colored and arose.

"What is it, Vesta?" she inquired, following her.

By this time, however, Vesta had reached the kitchen, secured a
little broom, and returned, a droll determination lighting her
face.

"I want my little broom," she exclaimed and marched sedately past,
at which manifestation of spirit Lester again twitched internally,
this time allowing the slightest suggestion of a smile to play across
his mouth.

The final effect of this intercourse was gradually to break down
the feeling of distaste Lester had for the child, and to establish in
its place a sort of tolerant recognition of her possibilities as a
human being.

The developments of the next six months were of a kind to further
relax the strain of opposition which still existed in Lester's mind.
Although not at all resigned to the somewhat tainted atmosphere in
which he was living, he yet found himself so comfortable that he could
not persuade himself to give it up. It was too much like a bed of
down. Jennie was too worshipful. The condition of unquestioned
liberty, so far as all his old social relationships were concerned,
coupled with the privilege of quiet, simplicity, and affection in the
home was too inviting. He lingered on, and began to feel that perhaps
it would be just as well to let matters rest as they were.

During this period his friendly relations with the little Vesta
insensibly strengthened. He discovered that there was a real flavor of
humor about Vesta's doings, and so came to watch for its development.
She was forever doing something interesting, and although Jennie
watched over her with a care that was in itself a revelation to him,
nevertheless Vesta managed to elude every effort to suppress her and
came straight home with her remarks. Once, for example, she was sawing
away at a small piece of meat upon her large plate with her big knife,
when Lester remarked to Jennie that it might be advisable to get her a
little breakfast set.

"She can hardly handle these knives."

"Yes," said Vesta instantly. "I need a little knife. My hand is
just so very little."

She held it up. Jennie, who never could tell what was to follow,
reached over and put it down, while Lester with difficulty restrained
a desire to laugh.

Another morning, not long after, she was watching Jennie put the
lumps of sugar in Lester's cup, when she broke in with, "I want two
lumps in mine, mamma."

"No, dearest," replied Jennie, "you don't need any in yours. You
have milk to drink."

"Uncle Lester has two," she protested.

"Yes," returned Jennie; "but you're only a little girl. Besides you
mustn't say anything like that at the table. It isn't nice."

"Uncle Lester eats too much sugar," was her immediate rejoinder, at
which that fine gourmet smiled broadly.

"I don't know about that," he put in, for the first time deigning
to answer her directly. "That sounds like the fox and grapes to me."
Vesta smiled back at him, and now that the ice was broken she
chattered on unrestrainedly. One thing led to another, and at last
Lester felt as though, in a way, the little girl belonged to him; he
was willing even that she should share in such opportunities as his
position and wealth might make possible--provided, of course,
that he stayed with Jennie, and that they worked out some arrangement
which would not put him hopelessly out of touch with the world which
was back of him, and which he had to keep constantly in mind.




CHAPTER XXXII


The following spring the show-rooms and warehouse were completed,
and Lester removed his office to the new building. Heretofore, he had
been transacting all his business affairs at the Grand Pacific and the
club. From now on he felt himself to be firmly established in
Chicago--as if that was to be his future home. A large number of
details were thrown upon him--the control of a considerable
office force, and the handling of various important transactions. It
took away from him the need of traveling, that duty going to Amy's
husband, under the direction of Robert. The latter was doing his best
to push his personal interests, not only through the influence he was
bringing to bear upon his sisters, but through his reorganization of
the factory. Several men whom Lester was personally fond of were in
danger of elimination. But Lester did not hear of this, and Kane
senior was inclined to give Robert a free hand. Age was telling on
him. He was glad to see some one with a strong policy come up and take
charge. Lester did not seem to mind. Apparently he and Robert were on
better terms than ever before.

Matters might have gone on smoothly enough were it not for the fact
that Lester's private life with Jennie was not a matter which could be
permanently kept under cover. At times he was seen driving with her by
people who knew him in a social and commercial way. He was for
brazening it out on the ground that he was a single man, and at
liberty to associate with anybody he pleased. Jennie might be any
young woman of good family in whom he was interested. He did not
propose to introduce her to anybody if he could help it, and he always
made it a point to be a fast traveler in driving, in order that others
might not attempt to detain and talk to him. At the theater, as has
been said, she was simply "Miss Gerhardt."

The trouble was that many of his friends were also keen observers
of life. They had no quarrel to pick with Lester's conduct. Only he
had been seen in other cities, in times past, with this same woman.
She must be some one whom he was maintaining irregularly. Well, what
of it? Wealth and youthful spirits must have their fling. Rumors came
to Robert, who, however, kept his own counsel. If Lester wanted to do
this sort of thing, well and good. But there must come a time when
there would be a show-down.

This came about in one form about a year and a half after Lester
and Jennie had been living in the north side apartment. It so happened
that, during a stretch of inclement weather in the fall, Lester was
seized with a mild form of grip. When he felt the first symptoms he
thought that his indisposition would be a matter of short duration,
and tried to overcome it by taking a hot bath and a liberal dose of
quinine. But the infection was stronger than he counted on; by morning
he was flat on his back, with a severe fever and a splitting
headache.

His long period of association with Jennie had made him incautious.
Policy would have dictated that he should betake himself to his hotel
and endure his sickness alone. As a matter of fact, he was very glad
to be in the house with her. He had to call up the office to say that
he was indisposed and would not be down for a day or so; then he
yielded himself comfortably to her patient ministrations.

Jennie, of course, was delighted to have Lester with her, sick or
well. She persuaded him to see a doctor and have him prescribe. She
brought him potions of hot lemonade, and bathed his face and hands in
cold water over and over. Later, when he was recovering, she made him
appetizing cups of beef-tea or gruel.

It was during this illness that the first real contretemps
occurred. Lester's sister Louise, who had been visiting friends in St.
Paul, and who had written him that she might stop off to see him on
her way, decided upon an earlier return than she had originally
planned. While Lester was sick at his apartment she arrived in
Chicago. Calling up the office, and finding that he was not there and
would not be down for several days, she asked where he could be
reached.

"I think he is at his rooms in the Grand Pacific," said an
incautious secretary. "He's not feeling well." Louise, a little
disturbed, telephoned to the Grand Pacific, and was told that Mr. Kane
had not been there for several days--did not, as a matter of
fact, occupy his rooms more than one or two days a week. Piqued by
this, she telephoned his club.

It so happened that at the club there was a telephone boy who had
called up the apartment a number of times for Lester himself. He had
not been cautioned not to give its number--as a matter of fact,
it had never been asked for by any one else. When Louise stated that
she was Lester's sister, and was anxious to find him, the boy replied,
"I think he lives at 19 Schiller Place."

"Whose address is that you're giving?" inquired a passing
clerk.

"Mr. Kane's."

"Well, don't be giving out addresses. Don't you know that yet?"

The boy apologized, but Louise had hung up the receiver and was
gone.

About an hour later, curious as to this third residence of her
brother, Louise arrived at Schiller Place. Ascending the
steps--it was a two-apartment house--she saw the name of
Kane on the door leading to the second floor. Ringing the bell, she
was opened to by Jennie, who was surprised to see so fashionably
attired a young woman.

"This is Mr. Kane's apartment, I believe," began Louise,
condescendingly, as she looked in at the open door behind Jennie. She
was a little surprised to meet a young woman, but her suspicions were
as yet only vaguely aroused.

"Yes," replied Jennie.

"He's sick, I believe. I'm his sister. May I come in?"

Jennie, had she had time to collect her thoughts, would have tried
to make some excuse, but Louise, with the audacity of her birth and
station, swept past before Jennie could say a word. Once inside Louise
looked about her inquiringly. She found herself in the sitting-room,
which gave into the bedroom where Lester was lying. Vesta happened to
be playing in one corner of the room, and stood up to eye the
new-comer. The open bedroom showed Lester quite plainly lying in bed,
a window to the left of him, his eyes closed.

"Oh, there you are, old fellow!" exclaimed Louise. "What's ailing
you?" she hurried on.

Lester, who at the sound of her voice had opened his eyes, realized
in an instant how things were. He pulled himself up on one elbow, but
words failed him.

"Why, hello, Louise," he finally forced himself to say. "Where did
you come from?"

"St. Paul. I came back sooner than I thought," she answered lamely,
a sense of something wrong irritating her. "I had a hard time finding
you, too. Who's your--" she was about to say "pretty
housekeeper," but turned to find Jennie dazedly gathering up certain
articles in the adjoining room and looking dreadfully distraught.

Lester cleared his throat hopelessly.

His sister swept the place with an observing eye. It took in the
home atmosphere, which was both pleasing and suggestive. There was a
dress of Jennie's lying across a chair, in a familiar way, which
caused Miss Kane to draw herself up warily. She looked at her brother,
who had a rather curious expression in his eyes--he seemed
slightly nonplussed, but cool and defiant.

"You shouldn't have come out here," said Lester finally, before
Louise could give vent to the rising question in her mind.

"Why shouldn't I?" she exclaimed, angered at the brazen confession.
"You're my brother, aren't you? Why should you have any place that I
couldn't come. Well, I like that--and from you to me."

"Listen, Louise," went on Lester, drawing himself up further on one
elbow. "You know as much about life as I do. There is no need of our
getting into an argument. I didn't know you were coming, or I would
have made other arrangements."

"Other arrangements, indeed," she sneered. "I should think as much.
The idea!"

She was greatly irritated to think that she had fallen into this
trap; it was really disgraceful of Lester.

"I wouldn't be so haughty about it," he declared, his color rising.
"I'm not apologizing to you for my conduct. I'm saying I would have
made other arrangements, which is a very different thing from begging
your pardon. If you don't want to be civil, you needn't."

"Why, Lester Kane!" she exclaimed, her cheeks flaming. "I thought
better of you, honestly I did. I should think you would be ashamed of
yourself living here in open--" she paused without using the
word--"and our friends scattered all over the city. It's
terrible! I thought you had more sense of decency and
consideration."

"Decency nothing," he flared. "I tell you I'm not apologizing to
you. If you don't like this you know what you can do."

"Oh!" she exclaimed. "This from my own brother! And for the sake of
that creature! Whose child is that?" she demanded, savagely and yet
curiously.

"Never mind, it's not mine. If it were it wouldn't make any
difference. I wish you wouldn't busy yourself about my affairs."

Jennie, who had been moving about the dining-room beyond the
sitting-room, heard the cutting references to herself. She winced with
pain.

"Don't flatter yourself. I won't any more," retorted Louise. "I
should think, though, that you, of all men, would be above anything
like this--and that with a woman so obviously beneath you. Why, I
thought she was--" she was again going to add "your housekeeper,"
but she was interrupted by Lester, who was angry to the point of
brutality.

"Never mind what you thought she was," he growled. "She's better
than some who do the so-called superior thinking. I know what you
think. It's neither here nor there, I tell you. I'm doing this, and I
don't care what you think. I have to take the blame. Don't bother
about me."

"Well, I won't, I assure you," she flung back. "It's quite plain
that your family means nothing to you. But if you had any sense of
decency, Lester Kane, you would never let your sister be trapped into
coming into a place like this. I'm disgusted, that's all, and so will
the others be when they hear of it."

She turned on her heel and walked scornfully out, a withering look
being reserved for Jennie, who had unfortunately stepped near the door
of the dining-room. Vesta had disappeared. Jennie came in a little
while later and closed the door. She knew of nothing to say. Lester,
his thick hair pushed back from his vigorous face, leaned back moodily
on his pillow. "What a devilish trick of fortune," he thought. Now she
would go home and tell it to the family. His father would know, and
his mother. Robert, Imogene, Amy all would hear. He would have no
explanation to make--she had seen. He stared at the wall
meditatively.

Meanwhile Jennie, moving about her duties, also found food for
reflection. So this was her real position in another woman's eyes. Now
she could see what the world thought. This family was as aloof from
her as if it lived on another planet. To his sisters and brothers, his
father and mother, she was a bad woman, a creature far beneath him
socially, far beneath him mentally and morally, a creature of the
streets. And she had hoped somehow to rehabilitate herself in the eyes
of the world. It cut her as nothing before had ever done. The thought
tore a great, gaping wound in her sensibilities. She was really low
and vile in her--Louise's--eyes, in the world's eyes,
basically so in Lester's eyes. How could it be otherwise? She went
about numb and still, but the ache of defeat and disgrace was under it
all. Oh, if she could only see some way to make herself right with the
world, to live honorably, to be decent. How could that possibly be
brought about? It ought to be--she knew that. But how?




CHAPTER XXXIII


Outraged in her family pride, Louise lost no time in returning to
Cincinnati, where she told the story of her discovery, embellished
with many details. According to her, she was met at the door by a
"silly-looking, white-faced woman," who did not even offer to invite
her in when she announced her name, but stood there "looking just as
guilty as a person possibly could." Lester also had acted shamefully,
having outbrazened the matter to her face. When she had demanded to
know whose the child was he had refused to tell her. "It isn't mine,"
was all he would say.

"Oh dear, oh dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Kane, who was the first to hear
the story. "My son, my Lester! How could he have done it!"

"And such a creature!" exclaimed Louise emphatically, as though the
words needed to be reiterated to give them any shadow of reality.

"I went there solely because I thought I could help him," continued
Louise. "I thought when they said he was indisposed that he might be
seriously ill. How should I have known?"

"Poor Lester!" exclaimed her mother. "To think he would come to
anything like that!"

Mrs. Kane turned the difficult problem over in her mind and, having
no previous experiences whereby to measure it, telephoned for old
Archibald, who came out from the factory and sat through the
discussion with a solemn countenance. So Lester was living openly with
a woman of whom they had never heard. He would probably be as defiant
and indifferent as his nature was strong. The standpoint of parental
authority was impossible. Lester was a centralized authority in
himself, and if any overtures for a change of conduct were to be made,
they would have to be very diplomatically executed.

Archibald Kane returned to the manufactory sore and disgusted, but
determined that something ought to be done. He held a consultation
with Robert, who confessed that he had heard disturbing rumors from
time to time, but had not wanted to say anything. Mrs. Kane suggested
that Robert might go to Chicago and have a talk with Lester.

"He ought to see that this thing, if continued, is going to do him
irreparable damage," said Mr. Kane. "He cannot hope to carry it off
successfully. Nobody can. He ought to marry her or he ought to quit. I
want you to tell him that for me."

"All well and good," said Robert, "but who's going to convince him?
I'm sure I don't want the job."

"I hope to," said old Archibald, "eventually; but you'd better go
up and try, anyhow. It can't do any harm. He might come to his
senses."

"I don't believe it," replied Robert. "He's a strong man. You see
how much good talk does down here. Still, I'll go if it will relieve
your feelings any. Mother wants it."

"Yes, yes," said his father distractedly, "better go."

Accordingly Robert went. Without allowing himself to anticipate any
particular measure of success in this adventure, he rode pleasantly
into Chicago confident in the reflection that he had all the powers of
morality and justice on his side.

Upon Robert's arrival, the third morning after Louise's interview,
he called up the warerooms, but Lester was not there. He then
telephoned to the house, and tactfully made an appointment. Lester was
still indisposed, but he preferred to come down to the office, and he
did. He met Robert in his cheerful, nonchalant way, and together they
talked business for a time. Then followed a pregnant silence.

"Well, I suppose you know what brought me up here," began Robert
tentatively.

"I think I could make a guess at it," Lester replied.

"They were all very much worried over the fact that you were
sick--mother particularly. You're not in any danger of having a
relapse, are you?"

"I think not."

"Louise said there was some sort of a peculiar menage
she ran into up here. You're not married, are you?"

"No."

"The young woman Louise saw is just--" Robert waved his hand
expressively.

Lester nodded.

"I don't want to be inquisitive, Lester. I didn't come up for that.
I'm simply here because the family felt that I ought to come. Mother
was so very much distressed that I couldn't do less than see you for
her sake"--he paused, and Lester, touched by the fairness and
respect of his attitude, felt that mere courtesy at least made some
explanation due.

"I don't know that anything I can say will help matters much," he
replied thoughtfully. "There's really nothing to be said. I have the
woman and the family has its objections. The chief difficulty about
the thing seems to be the bad luck in being found out."

He stopped, and Robert turned over the substance of this worldly
reasoning in his mind. Lester was very calm about it. He seemed, as
usual, to be most convincingly sane.

"You're not contemplating marrying her, are you?" queried Robert
hesitatingly.

"I hadn't come to that," answered Lester coolly.

They looked at each other quietly for a moment, and then Robert
turned his glance to the distant scene of the city.

"It's useless to ask whether you are seriously in love with her, I
suppose," ventured Robert.

"I don't know whether I'd be able to discuss that divine afflatus
with you or not," returned Lester, with a touch of grim humor. "I have
never experienced the sensation myself. All I know is that the lady is
very pleasing to me."

"Well, it's all a question of your own well-being and the family's,
Lester," went on Robert, after another pause. "Morality doesn't seem
to figure in it anyway--at least you and I can't discuss that
together. Your feelings on that score naturally relate to you alone.
But the matter of your own personal welfare seems to me to be
substantial enough ground to base a plea on. The family's feelings and
pride are also fairly important. Father's the kind of a man who sets
more store by the honor of his family than most men. You know that as
well as I do, of course."

"I know how father feels about it," returned Lester. "The whole
business is as clear to me as it is to any of you, though off-hand I
don't see just what's to be done about it. These matters aren't always
of a day's growth, and they can't be settled in a day. The girl's
here. To a certain extent I'm responsible that she is here. While I'm
not willing to go into details, there's always more in these affairs
than appears on the court calendar."

"Of course I don't know what your relations with her have been,"
returned Robert, "and I'm not curious to know, but it does look like a
bit of injustice all around, don't you think--unless you intend
to marry her?" This last was put forth as a feeler.

"I might be willing to agree to that, too," was Lester's baffling
reply, "if anything were to be gained by it. The point is, the woman
is here, and the family is in possession of the fact. Now if there is
anything to be done I have to do it. There isn't anybody else who can
act for me in this matter."

Lester lapsed into a silence, and Robert rose and paced the floor,
coming back after a time to say: "You say you haven't any idea of
marrying her--or rather you haven't come to it. I wouldn't,
Lester. It seems to me you would be making the mistake of your life,
from every point of view. I don't want to orate, but a man of your
position has so much to lose; you can't afford to do it. Aside from
family considerations, you have too much at stake. You'd be simply
throwing your life away--"

He paused, with his right hand held out before him, as was
customary when he was deeply in earnest, and Lester felt the candor
and simplicity of this appeal. Robert was not criticizing him now. He
was making an appeal to him, and this was somewhat different.

The appeal passed without comment, however, and then Robert began
on a new tack, this time picturing old Archibald's fondness for Lester
and the hope he had always entertained that he would marry some
well-to-do Cincinnati girl, Catholic, if agreeable to him, but at
least worthy of his station. And Mrs. Kane felt the same way; surely
Lester must realize that.

"I know just how all of them feel about it," Lester interrupted at
last, "but I don't see that anything's to be done right now."

"You mean that you don't think it would be policy for you to give
her up just at present?"

"I mean that she's been exceptionally good to me, and that I'm
morally under obligations to do the best I can by her. What that may
be, I can't tell."

"To live with her?" inquired Robert coolly.

"Certainly not to turn her out bag and baggage if she has been
accustomed to live with me," replied Lester.

Robert sat down again, as if he considered his recent appeal
futile.

"Can't family reasons persuade you to make some amicable
arrangements with her and let her go?"

"Not without due consideration of the matter; no."

"You don't think you could hold out some hope that the thing will
end quickly--something that would give me a reasonable excuse for
softening down the pain of it to the family?"

"I would be perfectly willing to do anything which would take away
the edge of this thing for the family, but the truth's the truth, and
I can't see any room for equivocation between you and me. As I've said
before, these relationships are involved with things which make it
impossible to discuss them--unfair to me, unfair to the woman. No
one can see how they are to be handled, except the people that are in
them, and even they can't always see. I'd be a damned dog to stand up
here and give you my word to do anything except the best I can."

Lester stopped, and now Robert rose and paced the floor again, only
to come back after a time and say, "You don't think there's anything
to be done just at present?"

"Not at present."

"Very well, then, I expect I might as well be going. I don't know
that there's anything else we can talk about."

"Won't you stay and take lunch with me? I think I might manage to
get down to the hotel if you'll stay."

"No, thank you," answered Robert. "I believe I can make that one
o'clock train for Cincinnati. I'll try, anyhow."

They stood before each other now, Lester pale and rather flaccid,
Robert clear, wax-like, well-knit, and shrewd, and one could see the
difference time had already made. Robert was the clean, decisive man,
Lester the man of doubts. Robert was the spirit of business energy and
integrity embodied, Lester the spirit of commercial self-sufficiency,
looking at life with an uncertain eye. Together they made a striking
picture, which was none the less powerful for the thoughts that were
now running through their minds.

"Well," said the older brother, after a time, "I don't suppose
there is anything more I can say. I had hoped to make you feel just as
we do about this thing, but of course you are your own best judge of
this. If you don't see it now, nothing I could say would make you. It
strikes me as a very bad move on your part though."

Lester listened. He said nothing, but his face expressed an
unchanged purpose.

Robert turned for his hat, and they walked to the office door
together.

"I'll put the best face I can on it," said Robert, and walked
out.




CHAPTER XXXIV


In this world of ours the activities of animal life seem to be
limited to a plane or circle, as if that were an inherent necessity to
the creatures of a planet which is perforce compelled to swing about
the sun. A fish, for instance, may not pass out of the circle of the
seas without courting annihilation; a bird may not enter the domain of
the fishes without paying for it dearly. From the parasites of the
flowers to the monsters of the jungle and the deep we see clearly the
circumscribed nature of their movements--the emphatic manner in
which life has limited them to a sphere; and we are content to note
the ludicrous and invariably fatal results which attend any effort on
their part to depart from their environment.

In the case of man, however, the operation of this theory of
limitations has not as yet been so clearly observed. The laws
governing our social life are not so clearly understood as to permit
of a clear generalization. Still, the opinions, pleas, and judgments
of society serve as boundaries which are none the less real for being
intangible. When men or women err--that is, pass out from the
sphere in which they are accustomed to move--it is not as if the
bird had intruded itself into the water, or the wild animal into the
haunts of man. Annihilation is not the immediate result. People may do
no more than elevate their eyebrows in astonishment, laugh
sarcastically, lift up their hands in protest. And yet so well defined
is the sphere of social activity that he who departs from it is
doomed. Born and bred in this environment, the individual is
practically unfitted for any other state. He is like a bird accustomed
to a certain density of atmosphere, and which cannot live comfortably
at either higher or lower level.

Lester sat down in his easy-chair by the window after his brother
had gone and gazed ruminatively out over the flourishing city. Yonder
was spread out before him life with its concomitant phases of energy,
hope, prosperity, and pleasure, and here he was suddenly struck by a
wind of misfortune and blown aside for the time being--his
prospects and purposes dissipated. Could he continue as cheerily in
the paths he had hitherto pursued? Would not his relations with Jennie
be necessarily affected by this sudden tide of opposition? Was not his
own home now a thing of the past so far as his old easy-going
relationship was concerned? All the atmosphere of unstained affection
would be gone out of it now. That hearty look of approval which used
to dwell in his father's eye--would it be there any longer?
Robert, his relations with the manufactory, everything that was a part
of his old life, had been affected by this sudden intrusion of
Louise.

"It's unfortunate," was all that he thought to himself, and
therewith turned from what he considered senseless brooding to the
consideration of what, if anything, was to be done.

"I'm thinking I'd take a run up to Mt. Clemens to-morrow, or
Thursday anyhow, if I feel strong enough," he said to Jennie after he
had returned. "I'm not feeling as well as I might. A few days will do
me good." He wanted to get off by himself and think. Jennie packed his
bag for him at the given time, and he departed, but he was in a
sullen, meditative mood.

During the week that followed he had ample time to think it all
over, the result of his cogitations being that there was no need of
making a decisive move at present. A few weeks more, one way or the
other, could not make any practical difference. Neither Robert nor any
other member of the family was at all likely to seek another
conference with him. His business relations would necessarily go on as
usual, since they were coupled with the welfare of the manufactory;
certainly no attempt to coerce him would be attempted. But the
consciousness that he was at hopeless variance with his family weighed
upon him. "Bad business," he meditated--"bad business." But he
did not change.

For the period of a whole year this unsatisfactory state of affairs
continued. Lester did not go home for six months; then an important
business conference demanding his presence, he appeared and carried it
off quite as though nothing important had happened. His mother kissed
him affectionately, if a little sadly; his father gave him his
customary greeting, a hearty handshake; Robert, Louise, Amy, Imogene,
concertedly, though without any verbal understanding, agreed to ignore
the one real issue. But the feeling of estrangement was there, and it
persisted. Hereafter his visits to Cincinnati were as few and far
between as he could possibly make them.




CHAPTER XXXV


In the meantime Jennie had been going through a moral crisis of her
own. For the first time in her life, aside from the family attitude,
which had afflicted her greatly, she realized what the world thought
of her. She was bad--she knew that. She had yielded on two
occasions to the force of circumstances which might have been fought
out differently. If only she had had more courage! If she did not
always have this haunting sense of fear! If she could only make up her
mind to do the right thing! Lester would never marry her. Why should
he? She loved him, but she could leave him, and it would be better for
him. Probably her father would live with her if she went back to
Cleveland. He would honor her for at last taking a decent stand. Yet
the thought of leaving Lester was a terrible one to her--he had
been so good. As for her father, she was not sure whether he would
receive her or not.

After the tragic visit of Louise she began to think of saving a
little money, laying it aside as best she could from her allowance.
Lester was generous and she had been able to send home regularly
fifteen dollars a week to maintain the family--as much as they
had lived on before, without any help from the outside. She spent
twenty dollars to maintain the table, for Lester required the best of
everything--fruits, meats, desserts, liquors, and what not. The
rent was fifty-five dollars, with clothes and extras a varying sum.
Lester gave her fifty dollars a week, but somehow it had all gone. She
thought how she might economize but this seemed wrong.

Better go without taking anything, if she were going, was the
thought that came to her. It was the only decent thing to do.

She thought over this week after week, after the advent of Louise,
trying to nerve herself to the point where she could speak or act.
Lester was consistently generous and kind, but she felt at times that
he himself might wish it. He was thoughtful, abstracted. Since the
scene with Louise it seemed to her that he had been a little
different. If she could only say to him that she was not satisfied
with the way she was living, and then leave. But he himself had
plainly indicated after his discovery of Vesta that her feelings on
that score could not matter so very much to him, since he thought the
presence of the child would definitely interfere with his ever
marrying her. It was her presence he wanted on another basis. And he
was so forceful, she could not argue with him very well. She decided
if she went it would be best to write a letter and tell him why. Then
maybe when he knew how she felt he would forgive her and think nothing
more about it.

The condition of the Gerhardt family was not improving. Since
Jennie had left Martha had married. After several years of teaching in
the public schools of Cleveland she had met a young architect, and
they were united after a short engagement. Martha had been always a
little ashamed of her family, and now, when this new life dawned, she
was anxious to keep the connection as slight as possible. She barely
notified the members of the family of the approaching
marriage--Jennie not at all--and to the actual ceremony she
invited only Bass and George. Gerhardt, Veronica, and William resented
the slight. Gerhardt ventured upon no comment. He had had too many
rebuffs. But Veronica was angry. She hoped that life would give her an
opportunity to pay her sister off. William, of course, did not mind
particularly. He was interested in the possibilities of becoming an
electrical engineer, a career which one of his school-teachers had
pointed out to him as being attractive and promising.

Jennie heard of Martha's marriage after it was all over, a note
from Veronica giving her the main details. She was glad from one point
of view, but realized that her brothers and sisters were drifting away
from her.

A little while after Martha's marriage Veronica and William went to
reside with George, a break which was brought about by the attitude of
Gerhardt himself. Ever since his wife's death and the departure of the
other children he had been subject to moods of profound gloom, from
which he was not easily aroused. Life, it seemed, was drawing to a
close for him, although he was only sixty-five years of age. The
earthly ambitions he had once cherished were gone forever. He saw
Sebastian, Martha, and George out in the world practically ignoring
him, contributing nothing at all to a home which should never have
taken a dollar from Jennie. Veronica and William were restless. They
objected to leaving school and going to work, apparently preferring to
live on money which Gerhardt had long since concluded was not being
come by honestly. He was now pretty well satisfied as to the true
relations of Jennie and Lester. At first he had believed them to be
married, but the way Lester had neglected Jennie for long periods, the
humbleness with which she ran at his beck and call, her fear of
telling him about Vesta--somehow it all pointed to the same
thing. She had not been married at home. Gerhardt had never had sight
of her marriage certificate. Since she was away she might have been
married, but he did not believe it.

The real trouble was that Gerhardt had grown intensely morose and
crotchety, and it was becoming impossible for young people to live
with him. Veronica and William felt it. They resented the way in which
he took charge of the expenditures after Martha left. He accused them
of spending too much on clothes and amusements, he insisted that a
smaller house should be taken, and he regularly sequestered a part of
the money which Jennie sent, for what purpose they could hardly guess.
As a matter of fact, Gerhardt was saving as much as possible in order
to repay Jennie eventually. He thought it was sinful to go on in this
way, and this was his one method, out side of his meager earnings, to
redeem himself. If his other children had acted rightly by him he felt
that he would not now be left in his old age the recipient of charity
from one, who, despite her other good qualities, was certainly not
leading a righteous life. So they quarreled.

It ended one winter month when George agreed to receive his
complaining brother and sister on condition that they should get
something to do. Gerhardt was nonplussed for a moment, but invited
them to take the furniture and go their way. His generosity shamed
them for the moment; they even tentatively invited him to come and
live with them, but this he would not do. He would ask the foreman of
the mill he watched for the privilege of sleeping in some
out-of-the-way garret. He was always liked and trusted. And this would
save him a little money.

So in a fit of pique he did this, and there was seen the spectacle
of an old man watching through a dreary season of nights, in a lonely
trafficless neighborhood while the city pursued its gaiety elsewhere.
He had a wee small corner in the topmost loft of a warehouse away from
the tear and grind of the factory proper. Here Gerhardt slept by day.
In the afternoon he would take a little walk, strolling toward the
business center, or out along the banks of the Cuyahoga, or the lake.
As a rule his hands were below his back, his brow bent in meditation.
He would even talk to himself a little--an occasional "By chops!"
or "So it is" being indicative of his dreary mood. At dusk he would
return, taking his stand at the lonely gate which was his post of
duty. His meals he secured at a nearby workingmen's boarding-house,
such as he felt he must have.

The nature of the old German's reflections at this time were of a
peculiarly subtle and somber character. What was this
thing--life? What did it all come to after the struggle, and the
worry, and the grieving? Where does it all go to? People die; you hear
nothing more from them. His wife, now, she had gone. Where had her
spirit taken its flight?

Yet he continued to hold some strongly dogmatic convictions. He
believed there was a hell, and that people who sinned would go there.
How about Mrs. Gerhardt? How about Jennie? He believed that both had
sinned woefully. He believed that the just would be rewarded in
heaven. But who were the just? Mrs. Gerhardt had not had a bad heart.
Jennie was the soul of generosity. Take his son Sebastian. Sebastian
was a good boy, but he was cold, and certainly indifferent to his
father. Take Martha--she was ambitious, but obviously selfish.
Somehow the children, outside of Jennie, seemed self-centered. Bass
walked off when he got married, and did nothing more for anybody.
Martha insisted that she needed all she made to live on. George had
contributed for a little while, but had finally refused to help out.
Veronica and William had been content to live on Jennie's money so
long as he would allow it, and yet they knew it was not right. His
very existence, was it not a commentary on the selfishness of his
children? And he was getting so old. He shook his head. Mystery of
mysteries. Life was truly strange, and dark, and uncertain. Still he
did not want to go and live with any of his children. Actually they
were not worthy of him--none but Jennie, and she was not good. So
he grieved.

This woeful condition of affairs was not made known to Jennie for
some time. She had been sending her letters to Martha, but, on her
leaving, Jennie had been writing directly to Gerhardt. After
Veronica's departure Gerhardt wrote to Jennie saying that there was no
need of sending any more money. Veronica and William were going to
live with George. He himself had a good place in a factory, and would
live there a little while. He returned her a moderate sum that he had
saved--one hundred and fifteen dollars--with the word that
he would not need it.

Jennie did not understand, but as the others did not write, she was
not sure but what it might be all right--her father was so
determined. But by degrees, however, a sense of what it really must
mean overtook her--a sense of something wrong, and she worried,
hesitating between leaving Lester and going to see about her father,
whether she left him or not. Would he come with her? Not here
certainly. If she were married, yes, possibly. If she were
alone--probably. Yet if she did not get some work which paid well
they would have a difficult time. It was the same old problem. What
could she do? Nevertheless, she decided to act. If she could get five
or six dollars a week they could live. This hundred and fifteen
dollars which Gerhardt had saved would tide them over the worst
difficulties perhaps.




CHAPTER XXXVI


The trouble with Jennie's plan was that it did not definitely take
into consideration Lester's attitude. He did care for her in an
elemental way, but he was hedged about by the ideas of the
conventional world in which he had been reared. To say that he loved
her well enough to take her for better or worse--to legalize her
anomalous position and to face the world bravely with the fact that he
had chosen a wife who suited him--was perhaps going a little too
far, but he did really care for her, and he was not in a mood, at this
particular time, to contemplate parting with her for good.

Lester was getting along to that time of life when his ideas of
womanhood were fixed and not subject to change. Thus far, on his own
plane and within the circle of his own associates, he had met no one
who appealed to him as did Jennie. She was gentle, intelligent,
gracious, a handmaiden to his every need; and he had taught her the
little customs of polite society, until she was as agreeable a
companion as he cared to have. He was comfortable, he was
satisfied--why seek further?

But Jennie's restlessness increased day by day. She tried writing
out her views, and started a half dozen letters before she finally
worded one which seemed, partially at least, to express her feelings.
It was a long letter for her, and it ran as follows:

"Lester dear, When you get this I won't be here, and I want you
not to think harshly of me until you have read it all. I am taking
Vesta and leaving, and I think it is really better that I should.
Lester, I ought to do it. You know when you met me we were very poor,
and my condition was such that I didn't think any good man would ever
want me. When you came along and told me you loved me I was hardly
able to think just what I ought to do. You made me love you, Lester,
in spite of myself.

"You know I told you that I oughtn't to do anything wrong any more
and that I wasn't good, but somehow when you were near me I couldn't
think just right, and I didn't see just how I was to get away from
you. Papa was sick at home that time, and there was hardly anything in
the house to eat. We were all doing so poorly. My brother George
didn't have good shoes, and mamma was so worried. I have often
thought, Lester, if mamma had not been compelled to worry so much she
might be alive to-day. I thought if you liked me and I really liked
you--I love you, Lester--maybe it wouldn't make so much
difference about me. You know you told me right away you would like to
help my family, and I felt that maybe that would be the right thing to
do. We were so terribly poor.

"Lester, dear, I am ashamed to leave you this way; it seems so mean,
but if you knew how I have been feeling these days you would forgive
me. Oh, I love you, Lester, I do, I do. But for months past--ever
since your sister came--I felt that I was doing wrong, and that I
oughtn't to go on doing it, for I know how terribly wrong it is. It
was wrong for me ever to have anything to do with Senator Brander, but
I was such a girl then--I hardly knew what I was doing. It was
wrong of me not to tell you about Vesta when I first met you, though I
thought I was doing right when I did it. It was terribly wrong of me
to keep her here all that time concealed, Lester, but I was afraid of
you then--afraid of what you would say and do. When your sister
Louise came it all came over me somehow, clearly, and I have never
been able to think right about it since. It can't be right, Lester,
but I don't blame you. I blame myself.

"I don't ask you to marry me, Lester. I know how you feel about me
and how you feel about your family, and I don't think it would be
right. They would never want you to do it, and it isn't right that I
should ask you. At the same time I know I oughtn't to go on living
this way. Vesta is getting along where she understands everything. She
thinks you are her really truly uncle. I have thought of it all so
much. I have thought a number of times that I would try to talk to you
about it, but you frighten me when you get serious, and I don't seem
to be able to say what I want to. So I thought if I could just write
you this and then go you would understand. You do, Lester, don't you?
You won't be angry with me? I know it's for the best for you and for
me. I ought to do it. Please forgive me, Lester, please; and don't
think of me any more. I will get along. But I love you--oh yes, I
do--and I will never be grateful enough for all you have done for
me. I wish you all the luck that can come to you. Please forgive me,
Lester. I love you, yes, I do. I love you.

"JENNIE.

"P. S. I expect to go to Cleveland with papa. He needs me. He is all
alone. But don't come for me, Lester. It's best that you
shouldn't."

She put this in an envelope, sealed it, and, having hidden it in
her bosom, for the time being, awaited the hour when she could
conveniently take her departure.

It was several days before she could bring herself to the actual
execution of the plan, but one afternoon, Lester, having telephoned
that he would not be home for a day or two, she packed some necessary
garments for herself and Vesta in several trunks, and sent for an
expressman. She thought of telegraphing her father that she was
coming; but, seeing he had no home, she thought it would be just as
well to go and find him. George and Veronica had not taken all the
furniture. The major portion of it was in storage--so Gerhard t
had written. She might take that and furnish a little home or flat.
She was ready for the end, waiting for the expressman, when the door
opened and in walked Lester.

For some unforeseen reason he had changed his mind. He was not in
the least psychic or intuitional, but on this occasion his feelings
had served him a peculiar turn. He had thought of going for a day's
duck-shooting with some friends in the Kankakee Marshes south of
Chicago, but had finally changed his mind; he even decided to go out
to the house early. What prompted this he could not have said.

As he neared the house he felt a little peculiar about coming home
so early; then at the sight of the two trunks standing in the middle
of the room he stood dumfounded. What did it mean--Jennie dressed
and ready to depart? And Vesta in a similar condition? He stared in
amazement, his brown eyes keen in inquiry.

"Where are you going?" he asked.

"Why--why--" she began, falling back. "I was going
away."

"Where to?"

"I thought I would go to Cleveland," she replied.

"What for?"

"Why--why--I meant to tell you, Lester, that I didn't
think I ought to stay here any longer this way. I didn't think it was
right. I thought I'd tell you, but I couldn't. I wrote you a
letter."

"A letter," he exclaimed. "What the deuce are you talking about?
Where is the letter?"

"There," she said, mechanically pointing to a small center-table
where the letter lay conspicuous on a large book.

"And you were really going to leave me, Jennie, with just a
letter?" said Lester, his voice hardening a little as he spoke. "I
swear to heaven you are beyond me. What's the point?" He tore open the
envelope and looked at the beginning. "Better send Vesta from the
room," he suggested.

She obeyed. Then she came back and stood there pale and wide-eyed,
looking at the wall, at the trunks, and at him. Lester read the letter
thoughtfully. He shifted his position once or twice, then dropped the
paper on the floor.

"Well, I'll tell you, Jennie," he said finally, looking at her
curiously and wondering just what he was going to say. Here again was
his chance to end this relationship if he wished. He couldn't feel
that he did wish it, seeing how peacefully things were running. They
had gone so far together it seemed ridiculous to quit now. He truly
loved her--there was no doubt of that. Still he did not want to
marry her--could not very well. She knew that. Her letter said as
much. "You have this thing wrong," he went on slowly. "I don't know
what comes over you at times, but you don't view the situation right.
I've told you before that I can't marry you--not now, anyhow.
There are too many big things involved in this, which you don't know
anything about. I love you, you know that. But my family has to be
taken into consideration, and the business. You can't see the
difficulties raised on these scores, but I can. Now I don't want you
to leave me. I care too much about you. I can't prevent you, of
course. You can go if you want to. But I don't think you ought to want
to. You don't really, do you? Sit down a minute."

Jennie, who had been counting on getting away without being seen,
was now thoroughly nonplussed. To have him begin a quiet
argument--a plea as it were. It hurt her. He, Lester, pleading
with her, and she loved him so.

She went over to him, and he took her hand.

"Now, listen," he said. "There's really nothing to be gained by
your leaving me at present. Where did you say you were going?"

"To Cleveland," she replied.

"Well, how did you expect to get along?"

"I thought I'd take papa, if he'd come with me--he's alone
now--and get something to do, maybe."

"Well, what can you do, Jennie, different from what you ever have
done? You wouldn't expect to be a lady's maid again, would you? Or
clerk in a store?"

"I thought I might get some place as a housekeeper," she suggested.
She had been counting up her possibilities, and this was the most
promising idea that had occurred to her.

"No, no," he grumbled, shaking his head. "There's nothing to that.
There's nothing in this whole move of yours except a notion. Why, you
won't be any better off morally than you are right now. You can't undo
the past. It doesn't make any difference, anyhow. I can't marry you
now. I might in the future, but I can't tell anything about that, and
I don't want to promise anything. You're not going to leave me though
with my consent, and if you were going I wouldn't have you dropping
back into any such thing as you're contemplating. I'll make some
provision for you. You don't really want to leave me, do you,
Jennie?"

Against Lester's strong personality and vigorous protest Jennie's
own conclusions and decisions went to pieces. Just the pressure of his
hand was enough to upset her. Now she began to cry.

"Don't cry, Jennie," he said. "This thing may work out better than
you think. Let it rest for a while. Take off your things. You're not
going to leave me any more, are you?"

"No-o-o!" she sobbed.

He took her in his lap. "Let things rest as they are," he went on.
"It's a curious world. Things can't be adjusted in a minute. They may
work out. I'm putting up with some things myself that I ordinarily
wouldn't stand for."

He finally saw her restored to comparative calmness, smiling sadly
through her tears.

"Now you put those things away," he said genially, pointing to the
trunks. "Besides, I want you to promise me one thing."

"What's that?" asked Jennie.

"No more concealment of anything, do you hear? No more thinking
things out for yourself, and acting without my knowing anything about
it. If you have anything on your mind, I want you to come out with it.
I'm not going to eat you! Talk to me about whatever is troubling you.
I'll help you solve it, or, if I can't, at least there won't be any
concealment between us."

"I know, Lester," she said earnestly, looking him straight in the
eyes. "I promise I'll never conceal anything any more--truly I
won't. I've been afraid, but I won't be now. You can trust me."

"That sounds like what you ought to be," he replied. "I know you
will." And he let her go.

A few days later, and in consequence of this agreement, the future
of Gerhardt came up for discussion. Jennie had been worrying about him
for several days; now it occurred to her that this was something to
talk over with Lester. Accordingly, she explained one night at dinner
what had happened in Cleveland. "I know he is very unhappy there all
alone," she said, "and I hate to think of it. I was going to get him
if I went back to Cleveland. Now I don't know what to do about
it."

"Why don't you send him some money?" he inquired.

"He won't take any more money from me, Lester," she explained. "He
thinks I'm not good--not acting right. He doesn't believe I'm
married."

"He has pretty good reason, hasn't he?" said Lester calmly.

"I hate to think of him sleeping in a factory. He's so old and
lonely."

"What's the matter with the rest of the family in Cleveland? Won't
they do anything for him? Where's your brother Bass?"

"I think maybe they don't want him, he's so cross," she said
simply.

"I hardly know what to suggest in that case," smiled Lester. "The
old gentleman oughtn't to be so fussy."

"I know," she said, "but he's old now, and he has had so much
trouble."

Lester ruminated for a while, toying with his fork. "I'll tell you
what I've been thinking, Jennie," he said finally. "There's no use
living this way any longer, if we're going to stick it out. I've been
thinking that we might take a house out in Hyde Park. It's something
of a run from the office, but I'm not much for this apartment life.
You and Vesta would be better off for a yard. In that case you might
bring your father on to live with us. He couldn't do any harm
pottering about; indeed, he might help keep things straight."

"Oh, that would just suit papa, if he'd come," she replied. "He
loves to fix things, and he'd cut the grass and look after the
furnace. But he won't come unless he's sure I'm married."

"I don't know how that could be arranged unless you could show the
old gentleman a marriage certificate. He seems to want something that
can't be produced very well. A steady job he'd have running the
furnace of a country house," he added meditatively.

Jennie did not notice the grimness of the jest. She was too busy
thinking what a tangle she had made of her life. Gerhardt would not
come now, even if they had a lovely home to share with him. And yet he
ought to be with Vesta again. She would make him happy.

She remained lost in a sad abstraction, until Lester, following the
drift of her thoughts, said: "I don't see how it can be arranged.
Marriage certificate blanks aren't easily procurable. It's bad
business--a criminal offense to forge one, I believe. I wouldn't
want to be mixed up in that sort of thing."

"Oh, I don't want you to do anything like that, Lester. I'm just
sorry papa is so stubborn. When he gets a notion you can't change
him."

"Suppose we wait until we get settled after moving," he suggested.
"Then you can go to Cleveland and talk to him personally. You might be
able to persuade him." He liked her attitude toward her father. It was
so decent that he rather wished he could help her carry out her
scheme. While not very interesting, Gerhardt was not objectionable to
Lester, and if the old man wanted to do the odd jobs around a big
place, why not?




CHAPTER XXXVII


The plan for a residence in Hyde Park was not long in taking shape.
After several weeks had passed, and things had quieted down again,
Lester invited Jennie to go with him to South Hyde Park to look for a
house. On the first trip they found something which seemed to suit
admirably--an old-time home of eleven large rooms, set in a lawn
fully two hundred feet square and shaded by trees which had been
planted when the city was young. It was ornate, homelike, peaceful.
Jennie was fascinated by the sense of space and country, although
depressed by the reflection that she was not entering her new home
under the right auspices. She had vaguely hoped that in planning to go
away she was bringing about a condition under which Lester might have
come after her and married her. Now all that was over. She had
promised to stay, and she would have to make the best of it. She
suggested that they would never know what to do with so much room, but
he waved that aside. "We will very likely have people in now and
then," he said. "We can furnish it up anyhow, and see how it looks."
He had the agent make out a five-year lease, with an option for
renewal, and set at once the forces to work to put the establishment
in order.

The house was painted and decorated, the lawn put in order, and
everything done to give the place a trim and satisfactory appearance.
There was a large, comfortable library and sitting-room, a big
dining-room, a handsome reception-hall, a parlor, a large kitchen,
serving-room, and in fact all the ground-floor essentials of a
comfortable home. On the second floor were bedrooms, baths, and the
maid's room. It was all very comfortable and harmonious, and Jennie
took an immense pride and pleasure in getting things in order.

Immediately after moving in, Jennie, with Lester's permission,
wrote to her father asking him to come to her. She did not say that
she was married, but left it to be inferred. She descanted on the
beauty of the neighborhood, the size of the yard, and the manifold
conveniences of the establishment. "It is so very nice," she added,
"you would like it, papa. Vesta is here and goes to school every day.
Won't you come and stay with us? It's so much better than living in a
factory. And I would like to have you so."

Gerhardt read this letter with a solemn countenance, Was it really
true? Would they be taking a larger house if they were not permanently
united? After all these years and all this lying? Could he have been
mistaken? Well, it was high time--but should he go? He had lived
alone this long time now--should he go to Chicago and live with
Jennie? Her appeal did touch him, but somehow he decided against it.
That would be too generous an acknowledgment of the fact that there
had been fault on his side as well as on hers.

Jennie was disappointed at Gerhardt's refusal. She talked it over
with Lester, and decided that she would go on to Cleveland and see
him. Accordingly, she made the trip, hunted up the factory, a great
rumbling furniture concern in one of the poorest sections of the city,
and inquired at the office for her father. The clerk directed her to a
distant warehouse, and Gerhardt was informed that a lady wished to see
him. He crawled out of his humble cot and came down, curious as to who
it could be. When Jennie saw him in his dusty, baggy clothes, his hair
gray, his eye brows shaggy, coming out of the dark door, a keen sense
of the pathetic moved her again. "Poor papa!" she thought. He came
toward her, his inquisitorial eye softened a little by his
consciousness of the affection that had inspired her visit. "What are
you come for?" he asked cautiously.

"I want you to come home with me, papa," she pleaded yearningly. "I
don't want you to stay here any more. I can't think of you living
alone any longer."

"So," he said, nonplussed, "that brings you?"

"Yes," she replied; "Won't you? Don't stay here."

"I have a good bed," he explained by way of apology for his
state.

"I know," she replied, "but we have a good home now and Vesta is
there. Won't you come? Lester wants you to."

"Tell me one thing," he demanded. "Are you married?"

"Yes," she replied, lying hopelessly. "I have been married a long
time. You can ask Lester when you come." She could scarcely look him
in the face, but she managed somehow, and he believed her.

"Well," he said, "it is time."

"Won't you come, papa?" she pleaded.

He threw out his hands after his characteristic manner. The urgency
of her appeal touched him to the quick. "Yes, I come," he said, and
turned; but she saw by his shoulders what was happening. He was
crying.

"Now, papa?" she pleaded.

For answer he walked back into the dark warehouse to get his
things.




CHAPTER XXXVIII


Gerhardt, having become an inmate of the Hyde Park home, at once
bestirred himself about the labors which he felt instinctively
concerned him. He took charge of the furnace and the yard, outraged at
the thought that good money should be paid to any outsider when he had
nothing to do. The trees, he declared to Jennie, were in a dreadful
condition. If Lester would get him a pruning knife and a saw he would
attend to them in the spring. In Germany they knew how to care for
such things, but these Americans were so shiftless. Then he wanted
tools and nails, and in time all the closets and shelves were put in
order. He found a Lutheran Church almost two miles away, and declared
that it was better than the one in Cleveland. The pastor, of course,
was a heaven-sent son of divinity. And nothing would do but that Vesta
must go to church with him regularly.

Jennie and Lester settled down into the new order of living with
some misgivings; certain difficulties were sure to arise. On the North
Side it had been easy for Jennie to shun neighbors and say nothing.
Now they were occupying a house of some pretensions; their immediate
neighbors would feel it their duty to call, and Jennie would have to
play the part of an experienced hostess. She and Lester had talked
this situation over. It might as well be understood here, he said,
that they were husband and wife. Vesta was to be introduced as
Jennie's daughter by her first marriage, her husband, a Mr. Stover
(her mother's maiden name), having died immediately after the child's
birth. Lester, of course, was the stepfather. This particular
neighborhood was so far from the fashionable heart of Chicago that
Lester did not expect to run into many of his friends. He explained to
Jennie the ordinary formalities of social intercourse, so that when
the first visitor called Jennie might be prepared to receive her.
Within a fortnight this first visitor arrived in the person of Mrs.
Jacob Stendahl, a woman of considerable importance in this particular
section. She lived five doors from Jennie--the houses of the
neighborhood were all set in spacious lawns--and drove up in her
carriage, on her return from her shopping, one afternoon.

"Is Mrs. Kane in?" she asked of Jeannette, the new maid.

"I think so, mam," answered the girl. "Won't you let me have your
card?"

The card was given and taken to Jennie, who looked at it
curiously.

When Jennie came into the parlor Mrs. Stendahl, a tall dark,
inquisitive-looking woman, greeted her most cordially.

"I thought I would take the liberty of intruding on you," she said
most winningly. "I am one of your neighbors. I live on the other side
of the street, some few doors up. Perhaps you have seen the
house--the one with the white stone gate-posts."

"Oh, yes indeed," replied Jennie. "I know it well. Mr. Kane and I
were admiring it the first day we came out here."

"I know of your husband, of course, by reputation. My husband is
connected with the Wilkes Frog and Switch Company."

Jennie bowed her head. She knew that the latter concern must be
something important and profitable from the way in which Mrs. Stendahl
spoke of it.

"We have lived here quite a number of years, and I know how you
must feel coming as a total stranger to a new section of the city. I
hope you will find time to come in and see me some afternoon. I shall
be most pleased. My regular reception day is Thursday."

"Indeed I shall," answered Jennie, a little nervously, for the
ordeal was a trying one. "I appreciate your goodness in calling. Mr.
Kane is very busy as a rule, but when he is at home I am sure he would
be most pleased to meet you and your husband."

"You must both come over some evening," replied Mrs. Stendahl. "We
lead a very quiet life. My husband is not much for social gatherings.
But we enjoy our neighborhood friends."

Jennie smiled her assurances of good-will. She accompanied Mrs.
Stendahl to the door, and shook hands with her. "I'm so glad to find
you so charming," observed Mrs. Stendahl frankly.

"Oh, thank you," said Jennie flushing a little. "I'm sure I don't
deserve so much praise."

"Well, now I will expect you some afternoon. Good-by," and she
waved a gracious farewell.

"That wasn't so bad," thought Jennie as she watched Mrs. Stendahl
drive away. "She is very nice, I think. I'll tell Lester about
her."

Among the other callers were a Mr. and Mrs. Carmichael Burke, a
Mrs. Hanson Field, and a Mrs. Timothy Ballinger--all of whom left
cards, or stayed to chat a few minutes. Jennie found herself taken
quite seriously as a woman of importance, and she did her best to
support the dignity of her position. And, indeed, she did
exceptionally well. She was most hospitable and gracious. She had a
kindly smile and a manner wholly natural; she succeeded in making a
most favorable impression. She explained to her guests that she had
been living on the North Side until recently, that her husband,
Mr. Kane, had long wanted to have a home in Hyde Park, that her father
and daughter were living here, and that Lester was the child's
stepfather. She said she hoped to repay all these nice attentions and
to be a good neighbor.

Lester heard about these calls in the evening, for he did not care
to meet these people. Jennie came to enjoy it in a mild way. She liked
making new friends, and she was hoping that something definite could
be worked out here which would make Lester look upon her as a good
wife and an ideal companion. Perhaps, some day, he might really want
to marry her.

First impressions are not always permanent, as Jennie was soon to
discover. The neighborhood had accepted her perhaps a little too
hastily, and now rumors began to fly about. A Mrs. Sommerville,
calling on Mrs. Craig, one of Jennie's near neighbors, intimated that
she knew who Lester was--"oh, yes, indeed. You know, my dear,"
she went on, "his reputation is just a little--" she raised her
eyebrows and her hand at the same time.

"You don't say!" commented her friend curiously. "He looks like
such a staid, conservative person."

"Oh, no doubt, in a way, he is," went on Mrs. Sommerville. "His
family is of the very best. There was some young woman he went
with--so my husband tells me. I don't know whether this is the
one or not, but she was introduced as a Miss Gorwood, or some such
name as that, when they were living together as husband and wife on
the North Side."

"Tst! Tst! Tst!" clicked Mrs. Craig with her tongue at this
astonishing news. "You don't tell me! Come to think of it, it must be
the same woman. Her father's name is Gerhardt."

"Gerhardt!" exclaimed Mrs. Sommerville. "Yes, that's the name. It
seems to me that there was some earlier scandal in connection with
her--at least there was a child. Whether he married her afterward
or not, I don't know. Anyhow, I understand his family will not have
anything to do with her."

"How very interesting!" exclaimed Mrs. Craig. "And to think he
should have married her afterward, if he really did. I'm sure you
can't tell with whom you're coming in contact these days, can
you?"

"It's so true. Life does get badly mixed at times. She appears to
be a charming woman."

"Delightful!" exclaimed Mrs. Craig. "Quite naive. I was really
taken with her."

"Well, it may be," went on her guest, "that this isn't the same
woman after all. I may be mistaken."

"Oh, I hardly think so. Gerhardt! She told me they had been living
on the North Side."

"Then I'm sure it's the same person. How curious that you should
speak of her!"

"It is, indeed," went on Mrs. Craig, who was speculating as to what
her attitude toward Jennie should be in the future.

Other rumors came from other sources. There were people who had
seen Jennie and Lester out driving on the North Side, who had been
introduced to her as Miss Gerhardt, who knew what the Kane family
thought. Of course her present position, the handsome house, the
wealth of Lester, the beauty of Vesta--all these things helped to
soften the situation. She was apparently too circumspect, too much the
good wife and mother, too really nice to be angry with; but she had a
past, and that had to be taken into consideration.

An opening bolt of the coming storm fell upon Jennie one day when
Vesta, returning from school, suddenly asked: "Mamma, who was my
papa?"

"His name was Stover, dear," replied her mother, struck at once by
the thought that there might have been some criticism--that some
one must have been saying something. "Why do you ask?"

"Where was I born?" continued Vesta, ignoring the last inquiry, and
interested in clearing up her own identity.

"In Columbus, Ohio, pet. Why?"

"Anita Ballinger said I didn't have any papa, and that you weren't
ever married when you had me. She said I wasn't a really, truly girl
at all--just a nobody. She made me so mad I slapped her."

Jennie's face grew rigid. She sat staring straight before her. Mrs.
Ballinger had called, and Jennie had thought her peculiarly gracious
and helpful in her offer of assistance, and now her little daughter
had said this to Vesta. Where did the child hear it?

"You mustn't pay any attention to her, dearie," said Jennie at
last. "She doesn't know. Your papa was Mr. Stover, and you were born
in Columbus. You mustn't fight other little girls. Of course they say
nasty things when they fight--sometimes things they don't really
mean. Just let her alone and don't go near her any more. Then she
won't say anything to you."

It was a lame explanation, but it satisfied Vesta for the time
being. "I'll slap her if she tries to slap me," she persisted.

"You mustn't go near her, pet, do you hear? Then she can't try to
slap you," returned her mother. "Just go about your studies, and don't
mind her. She can't quarrel with you if you don't let her."

Vesta went away leaving Jennie brooding over her words. The
neighbors were talking. Her history was becoming common gossip. How
had they found out.

It is one thing to nurse a single thrust, another to have the wound
opened from time to time by additional stabs. One day Jennie, having
gone to call on Mrs. Hanson Field, who was her immediate neighbor, met
a Mrs. Williston Baker, who was there taking tea. Mrs. Baker knew of
the Kanes, of Jennie's history on the North Side, and of the attitude
of the Kane family. She was a thin, vigorous, intellectual woman,
somewhat on the order of Mrs. Bracebridge, and very careful of her
social connections. She had always considered Mrs. Field a woman of
the same rigid circumspectness of attitude, and when she found Jennie
calling there she was outwardly calm but inwardly irritated. "This is
Mrs. Kane, Mrs. Baker," said Mrs. Field, introducing her guests with a
smiling countenance. Mrs. Baker looked at Jennie ominously.

"Mrs. Lester Kane?" she inquired.

"Yes," replied Mrs. Fields.

"Indeed," she went on freezingly. "I've heard a great deal about
Mrs.--" accenting the word "Mrs.--Lester Kane."

She turned to Mrs. Field, ignoring Jennie completely, and started
an intimate conversation in which Jennie could have no possible share.
Jennie stood helplessly by, unable to formulate a thought which would
be suitable to so trying a situation. Mrs. Baker soon announced her
departure, although she had intended to stay longer. "I can't remain
another minute," she said; "I promised Mrs. Neil that I would stop in
to see her to-day. I'm sure I've bored you enough already as it
is."

She walked to the door, not troubling to look at Jennie until she
was nearly out of the room. Then she looked in her direction, and gave
her a frigid nod.

"We meet such curious people now and again," she observed finally
to her hostess as she swept away.

Mrs. Field did not feel able to defend Jennie, for she herself was
in no notable social position, and was endeavoring, like every other
middle-class woman of means, to get along. She did not care to offend
Mrs. Williston Baker, who was socially so much more important than
Jennie. She came back to where Jennie was sitting, smiling
apologetically, but she was a little bit flustered. Jennie was out of
countenance, of course. Presently she excused herself and went home.
She had been cut deeply by the slight offered her, and she felt that
Mrs. Field realized that she had made a mistake in ever taking her up.
There would be no additional exchange of visits there--that she
knew. The old hopeless feeling came over her that her life was a
failure. It couldn't be made right, or, if it could, it wouldn't be.
Lester was not inclined to marry her and put her right.

Time went on and matters remained very much as they were. To look
at this large house, with its smooth lawn and well grown trees, its
vines clambering about the pillars of the veranda and interlacing
themselves into a transparent veil of green; to see Gerhardt pottering
about the yard, Vesta coming home from school, Lester leaving in the
morning in his smart trap--one would have said that here is peace
and plenty, no shadow of unhappiness hangs over this charming
home.

And as a matter of fact existence with Lester and Jennie did run
smoothly. It is true that the neighbors did not call any more, or only
a very few of them, and there was no social life to speak of; but the
deprivation was hardly noticed; there was so much in the home life to
please and interest. Vesta was learning to play the piano, and to play
quite well. She had a good ear for music. Jennie was a charming figure
in blue, lavender, and olive-green house-gowns as she went about her
affairs, sewing, dusting, getting Vesta off to school, and seeing that
things generally were put to rights. Gerhardt busied himself about his
multitudinous duties, for he was not satisfied unless he had his hands
into all the domestic economies of the household. One of his
self-imposed tasks was to go about the house after Lester, or the
servants, turning out the gas-jets or electric-light bulbs which might
accidentally have been left burning. That was a sinful extravagance.

Again, Lester's expensive clothes, which he carelessly threw aside
after a few month's use, were a source of woe to the thrifty old
German. Moreover, he grieved over splendid shoes discarded because of
a few wrinkles in the leather or a slightly run down heel or sole.
Gerhardt was for having them repaired, but Lester answered the old
man's querulous inquiry as to what was wrong "with them shoes" by
saying that they weren't comfortable any more.

"Such extravagance!" Gerhardt complained to Jennie. "Such waste! No
good can come of anything like that, It will mean want one of these
days."

"He can't help it, papa," Jennie excused. "That's the way he was
raised."

"Ha! A fine way to be raised. These Americans, they know nothing of
economy. They ought to live in Germany awhile. Then they would know
what a dollar can do."

Lester heard something of this through Jennie, but he only smiled.
Gerhardt was amusing to him.

Another grievance was Lester's extravagant use of matches. He had
the habit of striking a match, holding it while he talked, instead of
lighting his cigar, and then throwing it away. Sometimes he would
begin to light a cigar two or three minutes before he would actually
do so, tossing aside match after match. There was a place out in one
corner of the veranda where he liked to sit of a spring or summer
evening, smoking and throwing away half-burned matches. Jennie would
sit with him, and a vast number of matches would be lit and flung out
on the lawn. At one time, while engaged in cutting the grass, Gerhardt
found, to his horror, not a handful, but literally boxes of
half-burned match-sticks lying unconsumed and decaying under the
fallen blades. He was discouraged, to say the least. He gathered up
this damning evidence in a newspaper and carried it back into the
sitting-room where Jennie was sewing.

"See here, what I find!" he demanded. "Just look at that! That man,
he has no more sense of economy than a--than a--" the right
term failed him. "He sits and smokes, and this is the way he uses
matches. Five cents a box they cost--five cents. How can a man
hope to do well and carry on like that, I like to know. Look at
them."

Jennie looked. She shook her head. "Lester is extravagant," she
said.

Gerhardt carried them to the basement. At least they should be
burned in the furnace. He would have used them as lighters for his own
pipe, sticking them in the fire to catch a blaze, only old newspapers
were better, and he had stacks of these--another evidence of his
lord and master's wretched, spendthrift disposition. It was a sad
world to work in. Almost everything was against him. Still he fought
as valiantly as he could against waste and shameless extravagance. His
own economies were rigid. He would wear the same suit of
black--cut down from one of Lester's expensive investments of
years before--every Sunday for a couple of years. Lester's shoes,
by a little stretch of the imagination, could be made to seem to fit,
and these he wore. His old ties also--the black ones--they
were fine. If he could have cut down Lester's shirts he would have
done so; he did make over the underwear, with the friendly aid of the
cook's needle. Lester's socks, of course, were just right. There was
never any expense for Gerhardt's clothing.

The remaining stock of Lester's discarded clothing--shoes,
shirts, collars, suits, ties, and what not--he would store away
for weeks and months, and then, in a sad and gloomy frame of mind, he
would call in a tailor, or an old-shoe man, or a ragman, and dispose
of the lot at the best price he could. He learned that all second-hand
clothes men were sharks; that there was no use in putting the least
faith in the protests of any rag dealer or old-shoe man. They all
lied. They all claimed to be very poor, when as a matter of fact they
were actually rolling in wealth. Gerhardt had investigated these
stories; he had followed them up; he had seen what they were doing
with the things he sold them.

"Scoundrels!" he declared. "They offer me ten cents for a pair of
shoes, and then I see them hanging out in front of their places marked
two dollars. Such robbery! My God! They could afford to give me a
dollar."

Jennie smiled. It was only to her that he complained, for he could
expect no sympathy from' Lester. So far as his own meager store of
money was concerned, he gave the most of it to his beloved church,
where he was considered to be a model of propriety, honesty,
faith--in fact, the embodiment of all the virtues.

And so, for all the ill winds that were beginning to blow socially,
Jennie was now leading the dream years of her existence. Lester, in
spite of the doubts which assailed him at times as to the wisdom of
his career, was invariably kind and considerate, and he seemed to
enjoy his home life.

"Everything all right?" she would ask when he came in of an
evening.

"Sure!" he would answer, and pinch her chin or cheek.

She would follow him in while Jeannette, always alert, would take
his coat and hat. In the winter-time they would sit in the library
before the big grate-fire. In the spring, summer, or fall Lester
preferred to walk out on the porch, one corner of which commanded a
sweeping view of the lawn and the distant street, and light his
before-dinner cigar. Jennie would sit on the side of his chair and
stroke his head. "Your hair is not getting the least bit thin, Lester;
aren't you glad?" she would say; or, "Oh, see how your brow is
wrinkled now. You mustn't do that. You didn't change your tie, mister,
this morning. Why didn't you? I laid one out for you."

"Oh, I forgot," he would answer, or he would cause the wrinkles to
disappear, or laughingly predict that he would soon be getting bald if
he wasn't so now.

In the drawing-room or library, before Vesta and Gerhardt, she was
not less loving, though a little more circumspect. She loved odd
puzzles like pigs in clover, the spider's hole, baby billiards, and
the like. Lester shared in these simple amusements. He would work by
the hour, if necessary, to make a difficult puzzle come right. Jennie
was clever at solving these mechanical problems. Sometimes she would
have to show him the right method, and then she would be immensely
pleased with herself. At other times she would stand behind him
watching, her chin on his shoulder, her arms about his neck. He seemed
not to mind--indeed, he was happy in the wealth of affection she
bestowed. Her cleverness, her gentleness, her tact created an
atmosphere which was immensely pleasing; above all her youth and
beauty appealed to him. It made him feel young, and if there was one
thing Lester objected to, it was the thought of drying up into an
aimless old age. "I want to keep young, or die young," was one of his
pet remarks; and Jennie came to understand. She was glad that she was
so much younger now for his sake.

Another pleasant feature of the home life was Lester's steadily
increasing affection for Vesta. The child would sit at the big table
in the library in the evening conning her books, while Jennie would
sew, and Gerhardt would read his interminable list of German Lutheran
papers. It grieved the old man that Vesta should not be allowed to go
to a German Lutheran parochial school, but Lester would listen to
nothing of the sort. "We'll not have any thick-headed German training
in this," he said to Jennie, when she suggested that Gerhardt had
complained. "The public schools are good enough for any child. You
tell him to let her alone."

There were really some delightful hours among the four. Lester
liked to take the little seven-year-old school-girl between his knees
and tease her. He liked to invert the so-called facts of life, to
propound its paradoxes, and watch how the child's budding mind took
them. "What's water?" he would ask; and being informed that it was
"what we drink," he would stare and say, "That's so, but what is it?
Don't they teach you any better than that?"

"Well, it is what we drink, isn't it?" persisted Vesta.

"The fact that we drink it doesn't explain what it is," he would
retort. "You ask your teacher what water is"; and then he would leave
her with this irritating problem troubling her young soul.

Food, china, her dress, anything was apt to be brought back to its
chemical constituents, and he would leave her to struggle with these
dark suggestions of something else back of the superficial appearance
of things until she was actually in awe of him. She had a way of
showing him how nice she looked before she started to school in the
morning, a habit that arose because of his constant criticism of her
appearance. He wanted her to look smart, he insisted on a big bow of
blue ribbon for her hair, he demanded that her shoes be changed from
low quarter to high boots with the changing character of the seasons'
and that her clothing be carried out on a color scheme suited to her
complexion and disposition.

"That child's light and gay by disposition. Don't put anything
somber on her," he once remarked.

Jennie had come to realize that he must be consulted in this, and
would say, "Run to your papa and show him how you look."

Vesta would come and turn briskly around before him, saying,
"See."

"Yes. You're all right. Go on"; and on she would go.

He grew so proud of her that on Sundays and some week-days when
they drove he would always have her in between them. He insisted that
Jennie send her to dancing-school, and Gerhardt was beside himself
with rage and grief. "Such irreligion!" he complained to Jennie. "Such
devil's fol-de-rol. Now she goes to dance. What for? To make a no-good
out of her--a creature to be ashamed of?"

"Oh no, papa," replied Jennie. "It isn't as bad as that. This is an
awful nice school. Lester says she has to go."

"Lester, Lester; that man! A fine lot he knows about what is good
for a child. A card-player, a whisky-drinker!"

"Now, hush, papa; I won't have you talk like that," Jennie would
reply warmly. "He's a good man, and you know it."

"Yes, yes, a good man. In some things, maybe. Not in this. No."

He went away groaning. When Lester was near he said nothing, and
Vesta could wind him around her finger.

"Oh you," she would say, pulling at his arm or rubbing his grizzled
cheek. There was no more fight in Gerhardt when Vesta did this. He
lost control of himself--something welled up and choked his
throat. "Yes, I know how you do," he would exclaim.

Vesta would tweak his ear.

"Stop now!" he would say. "That is enough."

It was noticeable, however, that she did not have to stop unless
she herself willed it. Gerhardt adored the child, and she could do
anything with him; he was always her devoted servitor.




CHAPTER XXXIX


During this period the dissatisfaction of the Kane family with
Lester's irregular habit of life grew steadily stronger. That it could
not help but become an open scandal, in the course of time, was
sufficiently obvious to them. Rumors were already going about. People
seemed to understand in a wise way, though nothing was ever said
directly. Kane senior could scarcely imagine what possessed his son to
fly in the face of conventions in this manner. If the woman had been
some one of distinction--some sorceress of the stage, or of the
world of art, or letters, his action would have been explicable if not
commendable, but with this creature of very ordinary capabilities, as
Louise had described her, this putty-faced nobody--he could not
possibly understand it.

Lester was his son, his favorite son; it was too bad that he had
not settled down in the ordinary way. Look at the women in Cincinnati
who knew him and liked him. Take Letty Pace, for instance. Why in the
name of common sense had he not married her? She was good looking,
sympathetic, talented. The old man grieved bitterly, and then, by
degrees, he began to harden. It seemed a shame that Lester should
treat him so. It wasn't natural, or justifiable, or decent. Archibald
Kane brooded over it until he felt that some change ought to be
enforced, but just what it should be he could not say. Lester was his
own boss, and he would resent any criticism of his actions.
Apparently, nothing could be done.

Certain changes helped along an approaching denouement. Louise
married not many months after her very disturbing visit to Chicago,
and then the home property was fairly empty except for visiting
grandchildren. Lester did not attend the wedding, though he was
invited. For another thing, Mrs. Kane died, making a readjustment of
the family will necessary. Lester came home on this occasion, grieved
to think he had lately seen so little of his mother--that he had
caused her so much pain--but he had no explanation to make. His
father thought at the time of talking to him, but put it off because
of his obvious gloom. He went back to Chicago, and there were more
months of silence.

After Mrs. Kane's death and Louise's marriage, the father went to
live with Robert, for his three grandchildren afforded him his
greatest pleasure in his old age. The business, except for the final
adjustment which would come after his death, was in Robert's hands.
The latter was consistently agreeable to his sisters and their
husbands and to his father, in view of the eventual control he hoped
to obtain. He was not a sycophant in any sense of the word, but a
shrewd, cold business man, far shrewder than his brother gave him
credit for. He was already richer than any two of the other children
put together, but he chose to keep his counsel and to pretend modesty
of fortune. He realized the danger of envy, and preferred a Spartan
form of existence, putting all the emphasis on inconspicuous but very
ready and very hard cash. While Lester was drifting Robert was
working--working all the time.

Robert's scheme for eliminating his brother from participation in
the control of the business was really not very essential, for his
father, after long brooding over the details of the Chicago situation,
had come to the definite conclusion that any large share of his
property ought not to go to Lester. Obviously, Lester was not so
strong a man as he had thought him to be. Of the two brothers, Lester
might be the bigger intellectually or
sympathetically--artistically and socially there was no
comparison--but Robert got commercial results in a silent,
effective way. If Lester was not going to pull himself together at
this stage of the game, when would he? Better leave his property to
those who would take care of it. Archibald Kane thought seriously of
having his lawyer revise his will in such a way that, unless Lester
should reform, he would be cut off with only a nominal income. But he
decided to give Lester one more chance--to make a plea, in fact,
that he should abandon his false way of living, and put himself on a
sound basis before the world. It wasn't too late. He really had a
great future. Would he deliberately choose to throw it away? Old
Archibald wrote Lester that he would like to have a talk with him at
his convenience, and within the lapse of thirty-six hours Lester was
in Cincinnati.

"I thought I'd have one more talk with you, Lester, on a subject
that's rather difficult for me to bring up," began the elder Kane.
"You know what I'm referring to?"

"Yes, I know," replied Lester, calmly.

"I used to think, when I was much younger that my son's matrimonial
ventures would never concern me, but I changed my views on that score
when I got a little farther along. I began to see through my business
connections how much the right sort of a marriage helps a man, and
then I got rather anxious that my boys should marry well. I used to
worry about you, Lester, and I'm worrying yet. This recent connection
you've made has caused me no end of trouble. It worried your mother up
to the very last. It was her one great sorrow. Don't you think you
have gone far enough with it? The scandal has reached down here. What
it is in Chicago I don't know, but it can't be a secret. That can't
help the house in business there. It certainly can't help you. The
whole thing has gone on so long that you have injured your prospects
all around, and yet you continue. Why do you?"

"I suppose because I love her," Lester replied.

"You can't be serious in that," said his father. "If you had loved
her, you'd have married her in the first place. Surely you wouldn't
take a woman and live with her as you have with this woman for years,
disgracing her and yourself, and still claim that you love her. You
may have a passion for her, but it isn't love."

"How do you know I haven't married her?" inquired Lester coolly. He
wanted to see how his father would take to that idea.

"You're not serious!" The old gentleman propped himself up on his
arms and looked at him.

"No, I'm not," replied Lester, "but I might be. I might marry
her."

"Impossible!" exclaimed his father vigorously. "I can't believe it.
I can't believe a man of your intelligence would do a thing like that,
Lester. Where is your judgment? Why, you've lived in open adultery
with her for years, and now you talk of marrying her. Why, in heaven's
name, if you were going to do anything like that, didn't you do it in
the first place? Disgrace your parents, break your mother's heart,
injure the business, become a public scandal, and then marry the cause
of it? I don't believe it."

Old Archibald got up.

"Don't get excited, father," said Lester quickly. "We won't get
anywhere that way. I say I might marry her. She's not a bad woman, and
I wish you wouldn't talk about her as you do. You've never seen her.
You know nothing about her."

"I know enough," insisted old Archibald, determinedly. "I know that
no good woman would act as she has done. Why, man, she's after your
money. What else could she want? It's as plain as the nose on your
face."

"Father," said Lester, his voice lowering ominously, "why do you
talk like that? You never saw the woman. You wouldn't know her from
Adam's off ox. Louise comes down here and gives an excited report, and
you people swallow it whole. She isn't as bad as you think she is, and
I wouldn't use the language you're using about her if I were you.
You're doing a good woman an injustice, and you won't, for some
reason, be fair."

"Fair! Fair!" interrupted Archibald. "Talk about being fair. Is it
fair to me, to your family, to your dead mother to take a woman of the
streets and live with her? Is it--"

"Stop now, father," exclaimed Lester, putting up his hand. "I warn
you. I won't listen to talk like that. You're talking about the woman
that I'm living with--that I may marry. I love you, but I won't
have you saying things that aren't so. She isn't a woman of the
streets. You know, as well as you know anything, that I wouldn't take
up with a woman of that kind. We'll have to discuss this in a calmer
mood, or I won't stay here. I'm sorry. I'm awfully sorry. But I won't
listen to any such language as that."

Old Archibald quieted himself. In spite of his opposition, he
respected his son's point of view. He sat back in his chair and stared
at the floor. "How was he to handle this thing?" he asked himself.

"Are you living in the same place?" he finally inquired.

"No, we've moved out to Hyde Park. I've taken a house out
there."

"I hear there's a child. Is that yours?"

"No."

"Have you any children of your own?"

"No."

"Well, that's a God's blessing."

Lester merely scratched his chin.

"And you insist you will marry her?" Archibald went on.

"I didn't say that," replied his son. "I said I might."

"Might! Might!" exclaimed his father, his anger bubbling again.
"What a tragedy! You with your prospects! Your outlook! How do you
suppose I can seriously contemplate entrusting any share of my fortune
to a man who has so little regard for what the world considers as
right and proper? Why, Lester, this carriage business, your family,
your personal reputation appear to be as nothing at all to you. I
can't understand what has happened to your pride. It seems like some
wild, impossible fancy."

"It's pretty hard to explain, father, and I can't do it very well.
I simply know that I'm in this affair, and that I'm bound to see it
through. It may come out all right. I may not marry her--I may.
I'm not prepared now to say what I'll do. You'll have to wait. I'll do
the best I can."

Old Archibald merely shook his head disapprovingly.

"You've made a bad mess of this, Lester," he said finally. "Surely
you have. But I suppose you are determined to go your way. Nothing
that I have said appears to move you."

"Not now, father. I'm sorry."

"Well, I warn you, then, that, unless you show some consideration
for the dignity of your family and the honor of your position it will
make a difference in my will. I can't go on countenancing this thing,
and not be a party to it morally and every other way. I won't do it.
You can leave her, or you can marry her. You certainly ought to do one
or the other. If you leave her, everything will be all right. You can
make any provision for her you like. I have no objection to that. I'll
gladly pay whatever you agree to. You will share with the rest of the
children, just as I had planned. If you marry her it will make a
difference. Now do as you please. But don't blame me. I love you. I'm
your father. I'm doing what I think is my bounden duty. Now you think
that over and let me know."

Lester sighed. He saw how hopeless this argument was. He felt that
his father probably meant what he said, but how could he leave Jennie,
and justify himself to himself? Would his father really cut him off?
Surely not. The old gentleman loved him even now--he could see
it. Lester felt troubled and distressed; this attempt at coercion
irritated him. The idea--he, Lester Kane, being made to do such a
thing to throw Jennie down. He stared at the floor.

Old Archibald saw that he had let fly a telling bullet.

"Well," said Lester finally, "there's no use of our discussing it
any further now--that's certain, isn't it? I can't say what I'll
do. I'll have to take time and think. I can't decide this
offhand."

The two looked at each other. Lester was sorry for the world's
attitude and for his father's keen feeling about the affair. Kane
senior was sorry for his son, but he was determined to see the thing
through. He wasn't sure whether he had converted Lester or not, but he
was hopeful. Maybe he would come around yet.

"Good-by, father," said Lester, holding out his hand. "I think I'll
try and make that two-ten train. There isn't anything else you wanted
to see me about?"

"No."

The old man sat there after Lester had gone, thinking deeply. What
a twisted career! What an end to great possibilities? What a foolhardy
persistence in evil and error! He shook his head. Robert was wiser. He
was the one to control a business. He was cool and conservative. If
Lester were only like that. He thought and thought. It was a long time
before he stirred. And still, in the bottom of his heart, his erring
son continued to appeal to him.




CHAPTER XL


Lester returned to Chicago. He realized that he had offended his
father seriously, how seriously he could not say. In all his personal
relations with old Archibald he had never seen him so worked up. But
even now Lester did not feel that the breach was irreparable; he
hardly realized that it was necessary for him to act decisively if he
hoped to retain his father's affection and confidence. As for the
world at large, what did it matter how much people talked or what they
said. He was big enough to stand alone. But was he? People turn so
quickly from weakness or the shadow of it. To get away from
failure--even the mere suspicion of it--that seems to be a
subconscious feeling with the average man and woman; we all avoid
non-success as though we fear that it may prove contagious. Lester was
soon to feel the force of this prejudice.

One day Lester happened to run across Berry Dodge, the millionaire
head of Dodge, Holbrook & Kingsbury, a firm that stood in the
dry-goods world, where the Kane Company stood in the carriage world.
Dodge had been one of Lester's best friends. He knew him as intimately
as he knew Henry Bracebridge, of Cleveland, and George Knowles, of
Cincinnati. He visited at his handsome home on the North Shore Drive,
and they met constantly in a business and social way. But since Lester
had moved out to Hyde Park, the old intimacy had lapsed. Now they came
face to face on Michigan Avenue near the Kane building.

"Why, Lester, I'm glad to see you again," said Dodge.

He extended a formal hand, and seemed just a little cool. "I hear
you've gone and married since I saw you."

"No, nothing like that," replied Lester, easily, with the air of
one who prefers to be understood in the way of the world sense.

"Why so secret about it, if you have?" asked Dodge, attempting to
smile, but with a wry twist to the corners of his mouth. He was trying
to be nice, and to go through a difficult situation gracefully. "We
fellows usually make a fuss about that sort of thing. You ought to let
your friends know."

"Well," said Lester, feeling the edge of the social blade that was
being driven into him, "I thought I'd do it in a new way. I'm not much
for excitement in that direction, anyhow."

"It is a matter of taste, isn't it?" said Dodge a little absently.
"You're living in the city, of course?"

"In Hyde Park."

"That's a pleasant territory. How are things otherwise?" And he
deftly changed the subject before waving him a perfunctory
farewell.

Lester missed at once the inquiries which a man like Dodge would
have made if he had really believed that he was married. Under
ordinary circumstances his friend would have wanted to know a great
deal about the new Mrs. Kane. There would have been all those little
familiar touches common to people living on the same social plane.
Dodge would have asked Lester to bring his wife over to see them,
would have definitely promised to call. Nothing of the sort happened,
and Lester noticed the significant omission.

It was the same with the Burnham Moores, the Henry Aldriches, and a
score of other people whom he knew equally well. Apparently they all
thought that he had married and settled down. They were interested to
know where he was living, and they were rather disposed to joke him
about being so very secretive on the subject, but they were not
willing to discuss the supposed Mrs. Kane. He was beginning to see
that this move of his was going to tell against him notably.

One of the worst stabs--it was the cruelest because, in a way,
it was the most unintentional--he received from an old
acquaintance, Will Whitney, at the Union Club. Lester was dining there
one evening, and Whitney met him in the main reading-room as he was
crossing from the cloak-room to the cigar-stand. The latter was a
typical society figure, tall, lean, smooth-faced, immaculately garbed,
a little cynical, and to-night a little the worse for liquor. "Hi,
Lester!" he called out, "what's this talk about a menage
of yours out in Hyde Park? Say, you're going some. How are you going
to explain all this to your wife when you get married?"

"I don't have to explain it," replied Lester irritably. "Why should
you be so interested in my affairs? You're not living in a stone
house, are you?"

"Say, ha! ha! that's pretty good now, isn't it? You didn't marry
that little beauty you used to travel around with on the North Side,
did you? Eh, now! Ha, ha! Well, I swear. You married! You didn't, now,
did you?"

"Cut it out, Whitney," said Lester roughly. "You're talking
wild."

"Pardon, Lester," said the other aimlessly, but sobering. "I beg
your pardon. Remember, I'm just a little warm. Eight whisky-sours
straight in the other room there. Pardon. I'll talk to you some time
when I'm all right. See, Lester? Eh! Ha! ha! I'm a little loose,
that's right. Well, so long! Ha! ha!"

Lester could not get over that cacophonous "ha! ha!" It cut him,
even though it came from a drunken man's mouth. "That little beauty
you used to travel with on the North Side. You didn't marry her, did
you?" He quoted Whitney's impertinences resentfully. George! But this
was getting a little rough! He had never endured anything like this
before--he, Lester Kane. It set him thinking. Certainly he was
paying dearly for trying to do the kind thing by Jennie.




CHAPTER XLI


But worse was to follow. The American public likes gossip about
well-known people, and the Kanes were wealthy and socially prominent.
The report was that Lester, one of its principal heirs, had married a
servant girl. He, an heir to millions! Could it be possible? What a
piquant morsel for the newspapers! Very soon the paragraphs began to
appear. A small society paper, called the South Side Budget,
referred to him anonymously as "the son of a famous and wealthy
carriage manufacturer of Cincinnati," and outlined briefly what it
knew of the story. "Of Mrs. ----" it went on, sagely, "not
so much is known, except that she once worked in a well-known
Cleveland society family as a maid and was, before that, a
working-girl in Columbus, Ohio. After such a picturesque love-affair
in high society, who shall say that romance is dead?"

Lester saw this item. He did not take the paper, but some kind soul
took good care to see that a copy was marked and mailed to him. It
irritated him greatly, for he suspected at once that it was a scheme
to blackmail him. But he did not know exactly what to do about it. He
preferred, of course, that such comments should cease, but he also
thought that if he made any effort to have them stopped he might make
matters worse. So he did nothing. Naturally, the paragraph in the
Budget attracted the attention of other newspapers. It sounded
like a good story, and one Sunday editor, more enterprising than the
others, conceived the notion of having this romance written up. A
full-page Sunday story with a scare-head such as "Sacrifices Millions
for His Servant Girl Love," pictures of Lester, Jennie, the house at
Hyde Park, the Kane manufactory at Cincinnati, the warehouse on
Michigan Avenue--certainly, such a display would make a
sensation. The Kane Company was not an advertiser in any daily or
Sunday paper. The newspaper owed him nothing. If Lester had been
forewarned he might have put a stop to the whole business by putting
an advertisement in the paper or appealing to the publisher. He did
not know, however, and so was without power to prevent the
publication. The editor made a thorough job of the business. Local
newspaper men in Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Columbus were instructed
to report by wire whether anything of Jennie's history was known in
their city. The Bracebridge family in Cleveland was asked whether
Jennie had ever worked there. A garbled history of the Gerhardts was
obtained from Columbus. Jennie's residence on the North Side, for
several years prior to her supposed marriage, was discovered and so
the whole story was nicely pieced together. It was not the idea of the
newspaper editor to be cruel or critical, but rather complimentary.
All the bitter things, such as the probable illegitimacy of Vesta, the
suspected immorality of Lester and Jennie in residing together as man
and wife, the real grounds of the well-known objections of his family
to the match, were ignored. The idea was to frame up a Romeo and
Juliet story in which Lester should appear as an ardent,
self-sacrificing lover, and Jennie as a poor and lovely working-girl,
lifted to great financial and social heights by the devotion of her
millionaire lover. An exceptional newspaper artist was engaged to make
scenes depicting the various steps of the romance and the whole thing
was handled in the most approved yellow-journal style. There was a
picture of Lester obtained from his Cincinnati photographer for a
consideration; Jennie had been surreptitiously "snapped" by a staff
artist while she was out walking.

And so, apparently out of a clear sky, the story
appeared--highly complimentary, running over with sugary phrases,
but with all the dark, sad facts looming up in the background. Jennie
did not see it at first. Lester came across the page accidentally, and
tore it out. He was stunned and chagrined beyond words. "To think the
damned newspaper would do that to a private citizen who was quietly
minding his own business!" he thought. He went out of the house, the
better to conceal his deep inward mortification. He avoided the more
populous parts of the town, particularly the down-town section, and
rode far out on Cottage Grove Avenue to the open prairie. He wondered,
as the trolley-car rumbled along, what his friends were
thinking--Dodge, and Burnham Moore, and Henry Aldrich, and the
others. This was a smash, indeed. The best he could do was to put a
brave face on it and say nothing, or else wave it off with an
indifferent motion of the hand. One thing was sure--he would
prevent further comment. He returned to the house calmer, his
self-poise restored, but he was eager for Monday to come in order that
he might get in touch with his lawyer, Mr. Watson. But when he did see
Mr. Watson it was soon agreed between the two men that it would be
foolish to take any legal action. It was the part of wisdom to let the
matter drop. "But I won't stand for anything more," concluded
Lester.

"I'll attend to that," said the lawyer, consolingly.

Lester got up. "It's amazing--this damned country of ours!" he
exclaimed. "A man with a little money hasn't any more privacy than a
public monument."

"A man with a little money," said Mr. Watson, "is just like a cat
with a bell around its neck. Every rat knows exactly where it is and
what it is doing."

"That's an apt simile," assented Lester, bitterly.

Jennie knew nothing of this newspaper story for several days.
Lester felt that he could not talk it over, and Gerhardt never read
the wicked Sunday newspapers. Finally, one of Jennie's neighborhood
friends, less tactful than the others, called her attention to the
fact of its appearance by announcing that she had seen it. Jennie did
not understand at first. "A story about me?" she exclaimed.

"You and Mr. Kane, yes," replied her guest. "Your love
romance."

Jennie colored swiftly. "Why, I hadn't seen it," she said. "Are you
sure it was about us?"

"Why, of course," laughed Mrs. Stendahl. "How could I be mistaken?
I have the paper over at the house. I'll send Marie over with it when
I get back. You look very sweet in your picture."

Jennie winced.

"I wish you would," she said, weakly.

She was wondering where they had secured her picture, what the
article said. Above all, she was dismayed to think of its effect upon
Lester. Had he seen the article? Why had he not spoken to her about
it?

The neighbor's daughter brought over the paper, and Jennie's heart
stood still as she glanced at the title-page. There it all
was--uncompromising and direct. How dreadfully conspicuous the
headline--"This Millionaire Fell in Love With This Lady's Maid,"
which ran between a picture of Lester on the left and Jennie on the
right. There was an additional caption which explained how Lester, son
of the famous carriage family of Cincinnati, had sacrificed great
social opportunity and distinction to marry his heart's desire. Below
were scattered a number of other pictures--Lester addressing
Jennie in the mansion of Mrs. Bracebridge, Lester standing with her
before an imposing and conventional-looking parson, Lester driving
with her in a handsome victoria, Jennie standing beside the window of
an imposing mansion (the fact that it was a mansion being indicated by
most sumptuous-looking hangings) and gazing out on a very modest
working-man's cottage pictured in the distance. Jennie felt as though
she must die for very shame. She did not so much mind what it meant to
her, but Lester, Lester, how must he feel? And his family? Now they
would have another club with which to strike him and her. She tried to
keep calm about it, to exert emotional control, but again the tears
would rise, only this time they were tears of opposition to defeat.
She did not want to be hounded this way. She wanted to be let alone.
She was trying to do right now. Why couldn't the world help her,
instead of seeking to push her down?




CHAPTER XLII


The fact that Lester had seen this page was made perfectly clear to
Jennie that evening, for he brought it home himself, having concluded,
after mature deliberation, that he ought to. He had told her once that
there was to be no concealment between them, and this thing, coming so
brutally to disturb their peace, was nevertheless a case in point. He
had decided to tell her not to think anything of it--that it did
not make much difference, though to him it made all the difference in
the world. The effect of this chill history could never be undone. The
wise--and they included all his social world and many who were
not of it--could see just how he had been living. The article
which accompanied the pictures told how he had followed Jennie from
Cleveland to Chicago, how she had been coy and distant and that he had
to court her a long time to win her consent. This was to explain their
living together on the North Side. Lester realized that this was an
asinine attempt to sugar-coat the true story and it made him angry.
Still he preferred to have it that way rather than in some more brutal
vein. He took the paper out of his pocket when he arrived at the
house, spreading it on the library table. Jennie, who was close by,
watched him, for she knew what was coming.

"Here's something that will interest you, Jennie," he said dryly,
pointing to the array of text and pictures.

"I've already seen it, Lester," she said wearily. "Mrs. Stendahl
showed it to me this afternoon. I was wondering whether you had."

"Rather high-flown description of my attitude, isn't it? I didn't
know I was such an ardent Romeo."

"I'm awfully sorry, Lester," said Jennie, reading behind the dry
face of humor the serious import of this affair to him. She had long
since learned that Lester did not express his real feeling, his big
ills in words. He was inclined to jest and make light of the
inevitable, the inexorable. This light comment merely meant "this
matter cannot be helped, so we will make the best of it."

"Oh, don't feel badly about it," he went on. "It isn't anything
which can be adjusted now. They probably meant well enough. We just
happen to be in the limelight."

"I understand," said Jennie, coming over to him. "I'm sorry,
though, anyway." Dinner was announced a moment later and the incident
was closed.

But Lester could not dismiss the thought that matters were getting
in a bad way. His father had pointed it out to him rather plainly at
the last interview, and now this newspaper notoriety had capped the
climax. He might as well abandon his pretension to intimacy with his
old world. It would have none of him, or at least the more
conservative part of it would not. There were a few bachelors, a few
gay married men, some sophisticated women, single and married, who saw
through it all and liked him just the same, but they did not make
society. He was virtually an outcast, and nothing could save him but
to reform his ways; in other words, he must give up Jennie once and
for all.

But he did not want to do this. The thought was painful to
him--objectionable in every way. Jennie was growing in mental
acumen. She was beginning to see things quite as clearly as he did.
She was not a cheap, ambitious, climbing creature. She was a big woman
and a good one. It would be a shame to throw her down, and besides she
was good-looking. He was forty-six and she was twenty-nine; and she
looked twenty-four or five. It is an exceptional thing to find beauty,
youth, compatibility, intelligence, your own point of
view--softened and charmingly emotionalized--in another. He
had made his bed, as his father had said. He had better lie on it.

It was only a little while after this disagreeable newspaper
incident that Lester had word that his father was quite ill and
failing; it might be necessary for him to go to Cincinnati at any
moment. Pressure of work was holding him pretty close when the news
came that his father was dead. Lester, of course, was greatly shocked
and grieved, and he returned to Cincinnati in a retrospective and
sorrowful mood. His father had been a great character to him--a
fine and interesting old gentleman entirely aside from his
relationship to him as his son. He remembered him now dandling him
upon his knee as a child, telling him stories of his early life in
Ireland, and of his subsequent commercial struggle when he was a
little older, impressing the maxims of his business career and his
commercial wisdom on him as he grew to manhood. Old Archibald had been
radically honest. It was to him that Lester owed his instincts for
plain speech and direct statement of fact. "Never lie," was
Archibald's constant, reiterated statement. "Never try to make a thing
look different from what it is to you. It's the breath of
life--truth--it's the basis of real worth, while commercial
success--it will make a notable character of any one who will
stick to it." Lester believed this. He admired his father intensely
for his rigid insistence on truth, and now that he was really gone he
felt sorry. He wished he might have been spared to be reconciled to
him. He half fancied that old Archibald would have liked Jennie if he
had known her. He did not imagine that he would ever have had the
opportunity to straighten things out, although he still felt that
Archibald would have liked her.

When he reached Cincinnati it was snowing, a windy, blustery snow.
The flakes were coming down thick and fast. The traffic of the city
had a muffled sound. When he stepped down from the train he was met by
Amy, who was glad to see him in spite of all their past differences.
Of all the girls she was the most tolerant. Lester put his arms about
her, and kissed her.

"It seems like old times to see you, Amy," he said, "your coming to
meet me this way. How's the family? I suppose they're all here. Well,
poor father, his time had to come. Still, he lived to see everything
that he wanted to see. I guess he was pretty well satisfied with the
outcome of his efforts."

"Yes," replied Amy, "and since mother died he was very lonely."

They rode up to the house in kindly good feeling, chatting of old
times and places. All the members of the immediate family, and the
various relatives, were gathered in the old family mansion. Lester
exchanged the customary condolences with the others, realizing all the
while that his father had lived long enough. He had had a successful
life, and had fallen like a ripe apple from the tree. Lester looked at
him where he lay in the great parlor, in his black coffin, and a
feeling of the old-time affection swept over him. He smiled at the
clean-cut, determined, conscientious face.

"The old gentleman was a big man all the way through," he said to
Robert, who was present. "We won't find a better figure of a man
soon."

"We will not," said his brother, solemnly.

After the funeral it was decided to read the will at once. Louise's
husband was anxious to return to Buffalo; Lester was compelled to be
in Chicago. A conference of the various members of the family was
called for the second day after the funeral, to be held at the offices
of Messrs. Knight, Keatley & O'Brien, counselors of the late
manufacturer.

As Lester rode to the meeting he had the feeling that his father
had not acted in any way prejudicial to his interests. It had not been
so very long since they had had their last conversation; he had been
taking his time to think about things, and his father had given him
time. He always felt that he had stood well with the old gentleman,
except for his alliance with Jennie. His business judgment had been
valuable to the company. Why should there be any discrimination
against him? He really did not think it possible.

When they reached the offices of the law firm, Mr. O'Brien, a
short, fussy, albeit comfortable-looking little person, greeted all
the members of the family and the various heirs and assigns with a
hearty handshake. He had been personal counsel to Archibald Kane for
twenty years. He knew his whims and idiosyncrasies, and considered
himself very much in the light of a father confessor. He liked all the
children, Lester especially.

"Now I believe we are all here," he said, finally, extracting a
pair of large horn reading-glasses from his coat pocket and looking
sagely about. "Very well. We might as well proceed to business. I will
just read the will without any preliminary remarks."

He turned to his desk, picked up a paper lying upon it, cleared his
throat, and began.

It was a peculiar document, in some respects, for it began with all
the minor bequests; first, small sums to old employees, servants, and
friends. It then took up a few institutional bequests, and finally
came to the immediate family, beginning with the girls. Imogene, as a
faithful and loving daughter was left a sixth of the stock of the
carriage company and a fourth of the remaining properties of the
deceased, which roughly aggregated (the estate--not her share)
about eight hundred thousand dollars. Amy and Louise were provided for
in exactly the same proportion. The grandchildren were given certain
little bonuses for good conduct, when they should come of age. Then it
took up the cases of Robert and Lester.

"Owing to certain complications which have arisen in the affairs of
my son Lester," it began, "I deem it my duty to make certain
conditions which shall govern the distribution of the remainder of my
property, to wit: One-fourth of the stock of the Kane Manufacturing
Company and one-fourth of the remainder of my various properties,
real, personal, moneys, stocks and bonds, to go to my beloved son
Robert, in recognition of the faithful performance of his duty, and
one-fourth of the stock of the Kane Manufacturing Company and the
remaining fourth of my various properties, real, personal, moneys,
stocks and bonds, to be held in trust by him for the benefit of his
brother Lester, until such time as such conditions as may hereinafter
be set forth shall have been complied with. And it is my wish and
desire that my children shall concur in his direction of the Kane
Manufacturing Company, and of such other interests as are entrusted to
him, until such time as he shall voluntarily relinquish such control,
or shall indicate another arrangement which shall be better."

Lester swore under his breath. His cheeks changed color, but he did
not move. He was not inclined to make a show. It appeared that he was
not even mentioned separately.

The conditions "hereinafter set forth" dealt very fully with his
case, however, though they were not read aloud to the family at the
time, Mr. O'Brien stating that this was in accordance with their
father's wish. Lester learned immediately afterward that he was to
have ten thousand a year for three years, during which time he had the
choice of doing either one of two things: First, he was to leave
Jennie, if he had not already married her, and so bring his life into
moral conformity with the wishes of his father. In this event Lester's
share of the estate was to be immediately turned over to him.
Secondly, he might elect to marry Jennie, if he had not already done
so, in which case the ten thousand a year, specifically set aside to
him for three years, was to be continued for life--but for his
life only. Jennie was not to have anything of it after his death. The
ten thousand in question represented the annual interest on two
hundred shares of L. S. and M. S. stock which were also to be held in
trust until his decision had been reached and their final disposition
effected. If Lester refused to marry Jennie, or to leave her, he was
to have nothing at all after the three years were up. At Lester's
death the stock on which his interest was drawn was to be divided pro
rata among the surviving members of the family. If any heir or assign
contested the will, his or her share was thereby forfeited
entirely.

It was astonishing to Lester to see how thoroughly his father had
taken his case into consideration. He half suspected, on reading these
conditions, that his brother Robert had had something to do with the
framing of them, but of course he could not be sure. Robert had not
given any direct evidence of enmity.

"Who drew this will?" he demanded of O'Brien, a little later.

"Well, we all had a hand in it," replied O'Brien, a little
shamefacedly. "It was a very difficult document to draw up. You know,
Mr. Kane, there was no budging your father. He was adamant. He has
come very near defeating his own wishes in some of these clauses. Of
course, you know, we had nothing to do with its spirit. That was
between you and him. I hated very much to have to do it."

"Oh, I understand all that!" said Lester. "Don't let that worry
you."

Mr. O'Brien was very grateful.

During the reading of the will Lester had sat as stolid as an
ox.

He got up after a time, as did the others, assuming an air of
nonchalance. Robert, Amy, Louise and Imogene all felt shocked, but not
exactly, not unqualifiedly regretful. Certainly Lester had acted very
badly. He had given his father great provocation.

"I think the old gentleman has been a little rough in this," said
Robert, who had been sitting next him. "I certainly did not expect him
to go as far as that. So far as I am concerned some other arrangement
would have been satisfactory."

Lester smiled grimly. "It doesn't matter," he said.

Imogene, Amy, and Louise were anxious to be consolatory, but they
did not know what to say. Lester had brought it all on himself. "I
don't think papa acted quite right, Lester," ventured Amy, but Lester
waved her away almost gruffly.

"I can stand it," he said.

He figured out, as he stood there, what his income would be in case
he refused to comply with his father's wishes. Two hundred shares of
L. S. and M. S., in open market, were worth a little over one thousand
each. They yielded from five to six per cent., sometimes more,
sometimes less. At this rate he would have ten thousand a year, not
more.

The family gathering broke up, each going his way, and Lester
returned to his sister's house. He wanted to get out of the city
quickly, gave business as an excuse to avoid lunching with any one,
and caught the earliest train back to Chicago. As he rode he
meditated.

So this was how much his father really cared for him! Could it
really be so? He, Lester Kane, ten thousand a year, for only three
years, and then longer only on condition that he married Jennie! "Ten
thousand a year," he thought, "and that for three years! Good Lord!
Any smart clerk can earn that. To think he should have done that to
me!"




CHAPTER XLIII


This attempt at coercion was the one thing which would definitely
set Lester in opposition to his family, at least for the time being.
He had realized clearly enough of late that he had made a big mistake;
first in not having married Jennie, thus avoiding scandal; and in the
second place in not having accepted her proposition at the time when
she wanted to leave him; There were no two ways about it, he had made
a mess of this business. He could not afford to lose his fortune
entirely. He did not have enough money of his own. Jennie was unhappy,
he could see that. Why shouldn't she be? He was unhappy. Did he want
to accept the shabby ten thousand a year, even if he were willing to
marry her? Finally, did he want to lose Jennie, to have her go out of
his life once and for all? He could not make up his mind; the problem
was too complicated.

When Lester returned to his home, after the funeral, Jennie saw at
once that something was amiss with him, something beyond a son's
natural grief for his father's death was weighing upon his spirits.
What was it, she wondered. She tried to draw near to him
sympathetically, but his wounded spirit could not be healed so easily.
When hurt in his pride he was savage and sullen--he could have
struck any man who irritated him. She watched him interestedly,
wishing to do something for him, but he would not give her his
confidence. He grieved, and she could only grieve with him.

Days passed, and now the financial situation which had been created
by his father's death came up for careful consideration. The factory
management had to be reorganized. Robert would have to be made
president, as his father wished. Lester's own relationship to the
business would have to come up for adjudication. Unless he changed his
mind about Jennie, he was not a stockholder. As a matter of fact, he
was not anything. To continue to be secretary and treasurer, it was
necessary that he should own at least one share of the company's
stock. Would Robert give him any? Would Amy, Louise, or Imogene? Would
they sell him any? Would the other members of the family care to do
anything which would infringe on Robert's prerogatives under the will?
They were all rather unfriendly to Lester at present, and he realized
that he was facing a ticklish situation. The solution was--to get
rid of Jennie. If he did that he would not need to be begging for
stock. If he didn't, he was flying in the face of his father's last
will and testament. He turned the matter over in his mind slowly and
deliberately. He could quite see how things were coming out. He must
abandon either Jennie or his prospects in life. What a dilemma!

Despite Robert's assertion, that so far as he was concerned another
arrangement would have been satisfactory, he was really very well
pleased with the situation; his dreams were slowly nearing completion.
Robert had long had his plans perfected, not only for a thorough
reorganization of the company proper, but for an extension of the
business in the direction of a combination of carriage companies. If
he could get two or three of the larger organizations in the East and
West to join with him, selling costs could be reduced, over-production
would be avoided, and the general expenses could be materially scaled
down. Through a New York representative, he had been picking up stock
in outside carriage companies for some time and he was almost ready to
act. In the first place he would have himself elected president of the
Kane Company, and since Lester was no longer a factor, he could select
Amy's husband as vice-president, and possibly some one other than
Lester as secretary and treasurer. Under the conditions of the will,
the stock and other properties set aside temporarily for Lester, in
the hope that he would come to his senses, were to be managed and
voted by Robert. His father had meant, obviously, that he, Robert,
should help him coerce his brother. He did not want to appear mean,
but this was such an easy way. It gave him a righteous duty to
perform. Lester must come to his senses or he must let Robert run the
business to suit himself.

Lester, attending to his branch duties in Chicago, foresaw the
drift of things. He realized now that he was permanently out of the
company, a branch manager at his brother's sufferance, and the thought
irritated him greatly. Nothing had been said by Robert to indicate
that such a change had taken place--things went on very much as
before--but Robert's suggestions were now obviously law. Lester
was really his brother's employee at so much a year. It sickened his
soul.

There came a time, after a few weeks, when he felt as if he could
not stand this any longer. Hitherto he had been a free and independent
agent. The approaching annual stockholder's meeting which hitherto had
been a one-man affair and a formality, his father doing all the
voting, would be now a combination of voters, his brother presiding,
his sisters very likely represented by their husbands, and he not
there at all. It was going to be a great come-down, but as Robert had
not said anything about offering to give or sell him any stock which
would entitle him to sit as a director or hold any official position
in the company, he decided to write and resign. That would bring
matters to a crisis. It would show his brother that he felt no desire
to be under obligations to him in any way or to retain anything which
was not his--and gladly so--by right of ability and the
desire of those with whom he was associated. If he wanted to move back
into the company by deserting Jennie he would come in a very different
capacity from that of branch manager. He dictated a simple,
straight-forward business letter, saying:

"DEAR ROBERT, I know the time is drawing near when the company
must be reorganized under your direction. Not having any stock, I am
not entitled to sit as a director, or to hold the joint position of
secretary and treasurer. I want you to accept this letter as formal
notice of my resignation from both positions, and I want to have your
directors consider what disposition should be made of this position
and my services. I am not anxious to retain the branch-managership as
a branch-managership merely; at the same time I do not want to do
anything which will embarrass you in your plans for the future. You
see by this that I am not ready to accept the proposition laid down in
father's will--at least, not at present. I would like a definite
understanding of how you feel in this matter. Will you write and let
me know?

"Yours,

"LESTER."

Robert, sitting in his office at Cincinnati, considered this letter
gravely. It was like his brother to come down to "brass tacks." If
Lester were only as cautious as he was straightforward and direct,
what a man he would be! But there was no guile in the man--no
subtlety. He would never do a snaky thing--and Robert knew, in
his own soul, that to succeed greatly one must. "You have to be
ruthless at times--you have to be subtle," Robert would say to
himself. "Why not face the facts to yourself when you are playing for
big stakes?" He would, for one, and he did.

Robert felt that although Lester was a tremendously decent fellow
and his brother, he wasn't pliable enough to suit his needs. He was
too outspoken, too inclined to take issue. If Lester yielded to his
father's wishes, and took possession of his share of the estate, he
would become, necessarily, an active partner in the affairs of the
company. Lester would be a barrier in Robert's path. Did Robert want
this? Decidedly he did not. He much preferred that Lester should hold
fast to Jennie, for the present at least, and so be quietly shelved by
his own act.

After long consideration, Robert dictated a politic letter. He
hadn't made up his mind yet just what he wanted to do. He did not know
what his sisters' husbands would like. A consultation would have to be
held. For his part, he would be very glad to have Lester remain as
secretary and treasurer, if it could be arranged. Perhaps it would be
better to let the matter rest for the present.

Lester cursed. What did Robert mean by beating around the bush? He
knew well enough how it could be arranged. One share of stock would be
enough for Lester to qualify. Robert was afraid of him--that was
the basic fact. Well, he would not retain any branch-managership,
depend on that. He would resign at once. Lester accordingly wrote
back, saying that he had considered all sides, and had decided to look
after some interests of his own, for the time being. If Robert could
arrange it, he would like to have some one come on to Chicago and take
over the branch agency. Thirty days would be time enough. In a few
days came a regretful reply, saying that Robert was awfully sorry, but
that if Lester was determined he did not want to interfere with any
plans he might have in view. Imogene's husband, Jefferson Midgely, had
long thought he would like to reside in Chicago. He could undertake
the work for the time being.

Lester smiled. Evidently Robert was making the best of a very
subtle situation. Robert knew that he, Lester, could sue and tie
things up, and also that he would be very loath to do so. The
newspapers would get hold of the whole story. This matter of his
relationship to Jennie was in the air, anyhow. He could best solve the
problem by leaving her. So it all came back to that.




CHAPTER XLIV


For a man of Lester's years--he was now forty-six--to be
tossed out in the world without a definite connection, even though he
did have a present income (including this new ten thousand) of fifteen
thousand a year, was a disturbing and discouraging thing. He realized
now that, unless he made some very fortunate and profitable
arrangements in the near future, his career was virtually at an end.
Of course he could marry Jennie. That would give him the ten thousand
for the rest of his life, but it would also end his chance of getting
his legitimate share of the Kane estate. Again, he might sell out the
seventy-five thousand dollars' worth of moderate interest-bearing
stocks, which now yielded him about five thousand, and try a practical
investment of some kind--say a rival carriage company. But did he
want to jump in, at this stage of the game, and begin a running fight
on his father's old organization? Moreover, it would be a hard row to
hoe. There was the keenest rivalry for business as it was, with the
Kane Company very much in the lead. Lester's only available capital
was his seventy-five thousand dollars. Did he want to begin in a
picayune, obscure way? It took money to get a foothold in the carriage
business as things were now.

The trouble with Lester was that, while blessed with a fine
imagination and considerable insight, he lacked the ruthless,
narrow-minded insistence on his individual superiority which is a
necessary element in almost every great business success. To be a
forceful figure in the business world means, as a rule, that you must
be an individual of one idea, and that idea the God-given one that
life has destined you for a tremendous future in the particular field
you have chosen. It means that one thing, a cake of soap, a new
can-opener, a safety razor, or speed-accelerator, must seize on your
imagination with tremendous force, burn as a raging flame, and make
itself the be-all and end-all of your existence. As a rule, a man
needs poverty to help him to this enthusiasm, and youth. The thing he
has discovered, and with which he is going to busy himself, must be
the door to a thousand opportunities and a thousand joys. Happiness
must be beyond or the fire will not burn as brightly as it
might--the urge will not be great enough to make a great
success.

Lester did not possess this indispensable quality of enthusiasm.
Life had already shown him the greater part of its so-called joys. He
saw through the illusions that are so often and so noisily labeled
pleasure. Money, of course, was essential, and he had already had
money--enough to keep him comfortably. Did he want to risk it? He
looked about him thoughtfully. Perhaps he did. Certainly he could not
comfortably contemplate the thought of sitting by and watching other
people work for the rest of his days.

In the end he decided that he would bestir himself and look into
things. He was, as he said to himself, in no hurry; he was not going
to make a mistake. He would first give the trade, the people who were
identified with v he manufacture and sale of carriages, time to
realize that he was out of the Kane Company, for the time being,
anyhow, and open to other connections. So he announced that he was
leaving the Kane Company and going to Europe, ostensibly for a rest.
He had never been abroad, and Jennie, too, would enjoy it. Vesta could
be left at home with Gerhardt and a maid, and he and Jennie would
travel around a bit, seeing what Europe had to show. He wanted to
visit Venice and Baden-Baden, and the great watering-places that had
been recommended to him. Cairo and Luxor and the Parthenon had always
appealed to his imagination. After he had had his outing he could come
back and seriously gather up the threads of his intentions.

The spring after his father died, he put his plan into execution.
He had wound up the work of the warerooms and with a pleasant
deliberation had studied out a tour. He made Jennie his confidante,
and now, having gathered together their traveling comforts they took a
steamer from New York to Liverpool. After a few weeks in the British
Isles they went to Egypt. From there they came back, through Greece
and Italy, into Austria and Switzerland, and then later, through
France and Paris, to Germany and Berlin. Lester was diverted by the
novelty of the experience and yet he had an uncomfortable feeling that
he was wasting his time. Great business enterprises were not built by
travelers, and he was not looking for health.

Jennie, on the other hand, was transported by what she saw, and
enjoyed the new life to the full. Before Luxor and Karnak--places
which Jennie had never dreamed existed--she learned of an older
civilization, powerful, complex, complete. Millions of people had
lived and died here, believing in other gods, other forms of
government, other conditions of existence. For the first time in her
life Jennie gained a clear idea of how vast the world is. Now from
this point of view--of decayed Greece, of fallen Rome, of
forgotten Egypt, she saw how pointless are our minor difficulties, our
minor beliefs. Her father's Lutheranism--it did not seem so
significant any more; and the social economy of Columbus,
Ohio--rather pointless, perhaps. Her mother had worried so of
what people--her neighbors--thought, but here were dead
worlds of people, some bad, some good. Lester explained that their
differences in standards of morals were due sometimes to climate,
sometimes to religious beliefs, and sometimes to the rise of peculiar
personalities like Mohammed. Lester liked to point out how small
conventions bulked in this, the larger world, and vaguely she began to
see. Admitting that she had been bad--locally it was important,
perhaps, but in the sum of civilization, in the sum of big forces,
what did it all amount to? They would be dead after a little while,
she and Lester and all these people. Did anything matter except
goodness--goodness of heart? What else was there that was
real?




CHAPTER XLV


It was while traveling abroad that Lester came across, first at the
Carlton in London and later at Shepheards in Cairo, the one girl,
before Jennie, whom it might have been said he truly
admired--Letty Pace. He had not seen her for a long time, and she
had been Mrs. Malcolm Gerald for nearly four years, and a charming
widow for nearly two years more. Malcolm Gerald had been a wealthy
man, having amassed a fortune in banking and stock-brokering in
Cincinnati, and he had left Mrs. Malcolm Gerald very well off. She was
the mother of one child, a little girl, who was safely in charge of a
nurse and maid at all times, and she was invariably the picturesque
center of a group of admirers recruited from every capital of the
civilized world. Letty Gerald was a talented woman, beautiful,
graceful, artistic, a writer of verse, an omnivorous reader, a student
of art, and a sincere and ardent admirer of Lester Kane.

In her day she had truly loved him, for she had been a wise
observer of men and affairs, and Lester had always appealed to her as
a real man. He was so sane, she thought, so calm. He was always
intolerant of sham, and she liked him for it. He was inclined to wave
aside the petty little frivolities of common society conversation, and
to talk of simple and homely things. Many and many a time, in years
past, they had deserted a dance to sit out on a balcony somewhere, and
talk while Lester smoked. He had argued philosophy with her, discussed
books, described political and social conditions in other
cities--in a word, he had treated her like a sensible human
being, and she had hoped and hoped and hoped that he would propose to
her. More than once she had looked at his big, solid head with its
short growth of hardy brown hair, and wished that she could stroke it.
It was a hard blow to her when he finally moved away to Chicago; at
that time she knew nothing of Jennie, but she felt instinctively that
her chance of winning him was gone.

Then Malcolm Gerald, always an ardent admirer, proposed for
something like the sixty-fifth time, and she took him. She did not
love him, but she was getting along, and she had to marry some one. He
was forty-four when he married her, and he lived only four
years--just long enough to realize that he had married a
charming, tolerant, broad-minded woman. Then he died of pneumonia and
Mrs. Gerald was a rich widow, sympathetic, attractive, delightful in
her knowledge of the world, and with nothing to do except to live and
to spend her money.

She was not inclined to do either indifferently. She had long since
had her ideal of a man established by Lester. These whipper-snappers
of counts, earls, lords, barons, whom she met in one social world and
another (for her friendship and connections had broadened notably with
the years), did not interest her a particle. She was terribly weary of
the superficial veneer of the titled fortune-hunter whom she met
abroad. A good judge of character, a student of men and manners, a
natural reasoner along sociologic and psychologic lines, she saw
through them and through the civilization which they represented. "I
could have been happy in a cottage with a man I once knew out in
Cincinnati," she told one of her titled women friends who had been an
American before her marriage. "He was the biggest, cleanest, sanest
fellow. If he had proposed to me I would have married him if I had had
to work for a living myself."

"Was he so poor?" asked her friend.

"Indeed he wasn't. He was comfortably rich, but that did not make
any difference to me. It was the man I wanted."

"It would have made a difference in the long run," said the
other.

"You misjudge me," replied Mrs. Gerald. "I waited for him for a
number of years, and I know."

Lester had always retained pleasant impressions and kindly memories
of Letty Pace, or Mrs. Gerald, as she was now. He had been fond of her
in a way, very fond. Why hadn't he married her? He had asked himself
that question time and again. She would have made him an ideal wife,
his father would have been pleased, everybody would have been
delighted. Instead he had drifted and drifted, and then he had met
Jennie; and somehow, after that, he did not want her any more. Now
after six years of separation he met her again. He knew she was
married. She was vaguely aware he had had some sort of an
affair--she had heard that he had subsequently married the woman
and was living on the South Side. She did not know of the loss of his
fortune. She ran across him first in the Carlton one June evening. The
windows were open, and the flowers were blooming everywhere, odorous
with that sense of new life in the air which runs through the world
when spring comes back. For the moment she was a little beside
herself. Something choked in her throat; but she collected herself and
extended a graceful arm and hand.

"Why, Lester Kane," she exclaimed. "How do you do! I am so glad.
And this is Mrs. Kane? Charmed, I'm sure. It seems truly like a breath
of spring to see you again. I hope you'll excuse me, Mrs. Kane, but
I'm delighted to see your husband. I'm ashamed to say how many years
it is, Lester, since I saw you last! I feel quite old when I think of
it. Why, Lester, think; it's been all of six or seven years! And I've
been married and had a child, and poor Mr. Gerald has died, and oh,
dear, I don't know what all hasn't happened to me."

"You don't look it," commented Lester, smiling. He was pleased to
see her again, for they had been good friends. She liked him
still--that was evident, and he truly liked her.

Jennie smiled. She was glad to see this old friend of Lester's.
This woman, trailing a magnificent yellow lace train over pale,
mother-of-pearl satin, her round, smooth arms bare to the shoulder,
her corsage cut low and a dark red rose blowing at her waist, seemed
to her the ideal of what a woman should be. She liked looking at
lovely women quite as much as Lester; she enjoyed calling his
attention to them, and teasing him, in the mildest way, about their
charms. "Wouldn't you like to run and talk to her, Lester, instead of
to me?" she would ask when some particularly striking or beautiful
woman chanced to attract her attention. Lester would examine her
choice critically, for he had come to know that her judge of feminine
charms was excellent. "Oh, I'm pretty well off where I am," he would
retort, looking into her eyes; or, jestingly, "I'm not as young as I
used to be, or I'd get in tow of that."

"Run on," was her comment. "I'll wait for you."

"What would you do if I really should?"

"Why, Lester, I wouldn't do anything. You'd come back to me,
maybe."

"Wouldn't you care?"

"You know I'd care. But if you felt that you wanted to, I wouldn't
try to stop you. I wouldn't expect to be all in all to one man, unless
he wanted me to be."

"Where do you get those ideas, Jennie?" he asked her once, curious
to test the breadth of her philosophy.

"Oh, I don't know, why?"

"They're so broad, so good-natured, so charitable. They're not
common, that's sure."

"Why, I don't think we ought to be selfish, Lester. I don't know
why. Some women think differently, I know, but a man and a woman ought
to want to live together, or they ought not to--don't you think?
It doesn't make so much difference if a man goes off for a little
while--just so long as he doesn't stay--if he wants to come
back at all."

Lester smiled, but he respected her for the sweetness of her point
of view--he had to.

To-night, when she saw this woman so eager to talk to Lester, she
realized at once that they must have a great deal in common to talk
over; whereupon she did a characteristic thing. "Won't you excuse me
for a little while?" she asked, smiling. "I left some things uncared
for in our rooms. I'll be back."

She went away, remaining in her room as long as she reasonably
could, and Lester and Letty fell to discussing old times in earnest.
He recounted as much of his experiences as he deemed wise, and Letty
brought the history of her life up to date. "Now that you're safely
married, Lester," she said daringly, "I'll confess to you that you
were the one man I always wanted to have propose to me--and you
never did."

"Maybe I never dared," he said, gazing into her superb black eyes,
and thinking that perhaps she might know that he was not married. He
felt that she had grown more beautiful in every way. She seemed to him
now to be an ideal society figure-perfection itself--gracious,
natural, witty, the type of woman who mixes and mingles well, meeting
each new-comer upon the plane best suited to him or her.

"Yes, you thought! I know what you thought. Your real thought just
left the table."

"Tut, tut, my dear. Not so fast. You don't know what I
thought."

"Anyhow, I allow you some credit. She's charming."

"Jennie has her good points," he replied simply.

"And are you happy?"

"Oh, fairly so. Yes, I suppose I'm happy--as happy as any one
can be who sees life as it is. You know I'm not troubled with many
illusions."

"Not any, I think, kind sir, if I know you."

"Very likely, not any, Letty; but sometimes I wish I had a few. I
think I would be happier."

"And I, too, Lester. Really, I look on my life as a kind of
failure, you know, in spite of the fact that I'm almost as rich as
Croesus--not quite. I think he had some more than I have."

"What talk from you--you, with your beauty and talent, and
money--good heavens!"

"And what can I do with it? Travel, talk, shoo away silly
fortune-hunters. Oh, dear, sometimes I get so tired!"

Letty looked at Lester. In spite of Jennie, the old feeling came
back. Why should she have been cheated of him? They were as
comfortable together as old married people, or young lovers. Jennie
had had no better claim. She looked at him, and her eyes fairly spoke.
He smiled a little sadly.

"Here comes my wife," he said. "We'll have to brace up and talk of
other things. You'll find her interesting--really."

"Yes, I know," she replied, and turned on Jennie a radiant
smile.

Jennie felt a faint sense of misgiving. She thought vaguely that
this might be one of Lester's old flames. This was the kind of woman
he should have chosen--not her. She was suited to his station in
life, and he would have been as happy--perhaps happier. Was he
beginning to realize it? Then she put away the uncomfortable thought;
pretty soon she would be getting jealous, and that would be
contemptible.

Mrs. Gerald continued to be most agreeable in her attitude toward
the Kanes. She invited them the next day to join her on a drive
through Rotten Row. There was a dinner later at Claridge's, and then
she was compelled to keep some engagement which was taking her to
Paris. She bade them both an affectionate farewell, and hoped that
they would soon meet again. She was envious, in a sad way, of Jennie's
good fortune. Lester had lost none of his charm for her. If anything,
he seemed nicer, more considerate, more wholesome. She wished
sincerely that he were free. And Lester--subconsciously
perhaps--was thinking the same thing.

No doubt because of the fact that she was thinking of it, he had
been led over mentally all of the things which might have happened if
he had married her. They were so congenial now, philosophically,
artistically, practically. There was a natural flow of conversation
between them all the time, like two old comrades among men. She knew
everybody in his social sphere, which was equally hers, but Jennie did
not. They could talk of certain subtle characteristics of life in a
way which was not possible between him and Jennie, for the latter did
not have the vocabulary. Her ideas did not flow as fast as those of
Mrs. Gerald. Jennie had actually the deeper, more comprehensive,
sympathetic, and emotional note in her nature, but she could not show
it in light conversation. Actually she was living the thing she was,
and that was perhaps the thing which drew Lester to her. Just now, and
often in situations of this kind, she seemed at a disadvantage, and
she was. It seemed to Lester for the time being as if Mrs. Gerald
would perhaps have been a better choice after all--certainly as
good, and he would not now have this distressing thought as to his
future.

They did not see Mrs. Gerald again until they reached Cairo. In the
gardens about the hotel they suddenly encountered her, or rather
Lester did, for he was alone at the time, strolling and smoking.

"Well, this is good luck," he exclaimed. "Where do you come
from?"

"Madrid, if you please. I didn't know I was coming until last
Thursday. The Ellicotts are here. I came over with them. You know I
wondered where you might be. Then I remembered that you said you were
going to Egypt. Where is your wife?"

"In her bath, I fancy, at this moment. This warm weather makes
Jennie take to water. I was thinking of a plunge myself."

They strolled about for a time. Letty was in light blue silk, with
a blue and white parasol held daintily over her shoulder, and looked
very pretty. "Oh, dear!" she suddenly ejaculated, "I wonder sometimes
what I am to do with myself. I can't loaf always this way. I think
I'll go back to the States to live."

"Why don't you?"

"What good would it do me? I don't want to get married. I haven't
any one to marry now--that I want." She glanced at Lester
significantly, then looked away.

"Oh, you'll find some one eventually," he said, somewhat awkwardly.
"You can't escape for long--not with your looks and money."

"Oh, Lester, hush!"

"All right! Have it otherwise, if you want. I'm telling you."

"Do you still dance?" she inquired lightly, thinking of a ball
which was to be given at the hotel that evening. He had danced so well
a few years before.

"Do I look it?"

"Now, Lester, you don't mean to say that you have gone and
abandoned that last charming art. I still love to dance. Doesn't Mrs.
Kane?"

"No, she doesn't care to. At least she hasn't taken it up. Come to
think of it, I suppose that is my fault. I haven't thought of dancing
in some time."

It occurred to him that he hadn't been going to functions of any
kind much for some time. The opposition his entanglement had generated
had put a stop to that.

"Come and dance with me to-night. Your wife won't object. It's a
splendid floor. I saw it this morning."

"I'll have to think about that," replied Lester. "I'm not much in
practice. Dancing will probably go hard with me at my time of
life."

"Oh, hush, Lester," replied Mrs. Gerald. "You make me feel old.
Don't talk so sedately. Mercy alive, you'd think you were an old
man!"

"I am in experience, my dear."

"Pshaw, that simply makes us more attractive," replied his old
flame.




CHAPTER XLVI


That night after dinner the music was already sounding in the
ball-room of the great hotel adjacent to the palm-gardens when Mrs.
Gerald found Lester smoking on one of the verandas with Jennie by his
side. The latter was in white satin and white slippers, her hair lying
a heavy, enticing mass about her forehead and ears. Lester was
brooding over the history of Egypt, its successive tides or waves of
rather weak-bodied people; the thin, narrow strip of soil along either
side of the Nile that had given these successive waves of population
sustenance; the wonder of heat and tropic life, and this hotel with
its modern conveniences and fashionable crowd set down among ancient,
soul-weary, almost despairing conditions. He and Jennie had looked
this morning on the pyramids. They had taken a trolley to the Sphinx!
They had watched swarms of ragged, half-clad, curiously costumed men
and boys moving through narrow, smelly, albeit brightly colored, lanes
and alleys.

"It all seems such a mess to me," Jennie had said at one place.
"They are so dirty and oily. I like it, but somehow they seem tangled
up, like a lot of worms."

Lester chuckled, "You're almost right. But climate does it. Heat.
The tropics. Life is always mushy and sensual under these conditions.
They can't help it."

"Oh, I know that. I don't blame them. They're just queer."

To-night he was brooding over this, the moon shining down into the
grounds with an exuberant, sensuous luster.

"Well, at last I've found you!" Mrs. Gerald exclaimed. "I couldn't
get down to dinner, after all. Our party was so late getting back.
I've made your husband agree to dance with me, Mrs. Kane," she went on
smilingly. She, like Lester and Jennie, was under the sensuous
influence of the warmth, the spring, the moonlight. There were rich
odors abroad, floating subtly from groves and gardens; from the remote
distance camel-bells were sounding and exotic cries, "Ayah!"
and "oosh! oosh!" as though a drove of strange animals were
being rounded up and driven through the crowded streets.

"You're welcome to him," replied Jennie pleasantly. "He ought to
dance. I sometimes wish I did."

"You ought to take lessons right away then," replied Lester
genially. "I'll do my best to keep you company. I'm not as light on my
feet as I was once, but I guess I can get around."

"Oh, I don't want to dance that badly," smiled Jennie. "But you two
go on, I'm going up-stairs in a little while, anyway."

"Why don't you come sit in the ball-room? I can't do more than a
few rounds. Then we can watch the others," said Lester rising.

"No. I think I'll stay here. It's so pleasant. You go. Take him,
Mrs. Gerald."

Lester and Letty strolled away. They made a striking
pair--Mrs. Gerald in dark wine-colored silk, covered with
glistening black beads, her shapely arms and neck bare, and a flashing
diamond of great size set just above her forehead in her dark hair.
Her lips were red, and she had an engaging smile, showing an even row
of white teeth between wide, full, friendly lips. Lester's strong,
vigorous figure was well set off by his evening clothes, he looked
distinguished.

"That is the woman he should have married," said Jennie to herself
as he disappeared. She fell into a reverie, going over the steps of
her past life. Sometimes it seemed to her now as if she had been
living in a dream. At other times she felt as though she were in that
dream yet. Life sounded in her ears much as this night did. She heard
its cries. She knew its large-mass features. But back of it were
subtleties that shaded and changed one into the other like the
shifting of dreams. Why had she been so attractive to men? Why had
Lester been so eager to follow her? Could she have prevented him? She
thought of her life in Columbus, when she carried coal; to-night she
was in Egypt, at this great hotel, the chatelaine of a suite of rooms,
surrounded by every luxury, Lester still devoted to her. He had
endured so many things for her! Why? Was she so wonderful? Brander had
said so. Lester had told her so. Still she felt humble, out of place,
holding handfuls of jewels that did not belong to her. Again she
experienced that peculiar feeling which had come over her the first
time she went to New York with Lester--namely, that this fairy
existence could not endure. Her life was fated. Something would
happen. She would go back to simple things, to a side street, a poor
cottage, to old clothes.

And then as she thought of her home in Chicago, and the attitude of
his friends, she knew it must be so. She would never be received, even
if he married her. And she could understand why. She could look into
the charming, smiling face of this woman who was now with Lester, and
see that she considered her very nice, perhaps, but not of Lester's
class. She was saying to herself now no doubt as she danced with
Lester that he needed some one like her. He needed some one who had
been raised in the atmosphere of the things to which he had been
accustomed. He couldn't very well expect to find in her, Jennie, the
familiarity with, the appreciation of the niceties to, which he had
always been accustomed. She understood what they were. Her mind had
awakened rapidly to details of furniture, clothing, arrangement,
decorations, manner, forms, customs, but--she was not to the
manner born.

If she went away Lester would return to his old world, the world of
the attractive, well-bred, clever woman who now hung upon his arm. The
tears came into Jennie's eyes; she wished, for the moment, that she
might die. It would be better so. Meanwhile Lester was dancing with
Mrs. Gerald, or sitting out between the waltzes talking over old
times, old places, and old friends. As he looked at Letty he marveled
at her youth and beauty. She was more developed than formerly, but
still as slender and shapely as Diana. She had strength, too, in this
smooth body of hers, and her black eyes were liquid and lusterful.

"I swear, Letty," he said impulsively, "you're really more
beautiful than ever. You're exquisite. You've grown younger instead of
older."

"You think so?" she smiled, looking up into his face.

"You know I do, or I wouldn't say so. I'm not much on
philandering."

"Oh, Lester, you bear, can't you allow a woman just a little
coyness? Don't you know we all love to sip our praise, and not be
compelled to swallow it in one great mouthful?"

"What's the point?" he asked. "What did I say?"

"Oh, nothing. You're such a bear. You're such a big, determined,
straightforward boy. But never mind. I like you. That's enough, isn't
it?"

"It surely is," he said.

They strolled into the garden as the music ceased, and he squeezed
her arm softly. He couldn't help it; she made him feel as if he owned
her. She wanted him to feel that way. She said to herself, as they sat
looking at the lanterns in the gardens, that if ever he were free, and
would come to her, she would take him. She was almost ready to take
him anyhow--only he probably wouldn't. He was so straight-laced,
so considerate. He wouldn't, like so many other men she knew, do a
mean thing. He couldn't. Finally Lester rose and excused himself. He
and Jennie were going farther up the Nile in the morning--toward
Karnak and Thebes and the water-washed temples at Phylae. They
would have to start at an unearthly early hour, and he must get to
bed.

"When are you going home?" asked Mrs. Gerald, ruefully.

"In September."

"Have you engaged your passage?"

"Yes; we sail from Hamburg on the ninth--the
Fulda."

"I may be going back in the fall," laughed Letty. "Don't be
surprised if I crowd in on the same boat with you. I'm very unsettled
in my mind."

"Come along, for goodness sake," replied Lester. "I hope you do....
I'll see you to-morrow before we leave." He paused, and she looked at
him wistfully.

"Cheer up," he said, taking her hand. "You never can tell what life
will do. We sometimes find ourselves right when we thought we were all
wrong."

He was thinking that she was sorry to lose him, and he was sorry
that she was not in a position to have what she wanted. As for
himself, he was saying that here was one solution that probably he
would never accept; yet it was a solution. Why had he not seen this
years before?

"And yet she wasn't as beautiful then as she is now, nor as wise,
nor as wealthy." Maybe! Maybe! But he couldn't be unfaithful to Jennie
nor wish her any bad luck. She had had enough without his willing, and
had borne it bravely.




CHAPTER XLVII


The trip home did bring another week with Mrs. Gerald, for after
mature consideration she had decided to venture to America for a
while. Chicago and Cincinnati were her destinations, and she hoped to
see more of Lester. Her presence was a good deal of a surprise to
Jennie, and it started her thinking again. She could see what the
point was. If she were out of the way Mrs. Gerald would marry Lester;
that was certain. As it was--well, the question was a complicated
one. Letty was Lester's natural mate, so far as birth, breeding, and
position went. And yet Jennie felt instinctively that, on the large
human side, Lester preferred her. Perhaps time would solve the
problem; in the mean time the little party of three continued to
remain excellent friends. When they reached Chicago Mrs. Gerald went
her way, and Jennie and Lester took up the customary thread of their
existence.

On his return from Europe Lester set to work in earnest to find a
business opening. None of the big companies made him any overtures,
principally because he was considered a strong man who was looking for
a control in anything he touched. The nature of his altered fortunes
had not been made public. All the little companies that he
investigated were having a hand-to-mouth existence, or manufacturing a
product which was not satisfactory to him. He did find one company in
a small town in northern Indiana which looked as though it might have
a future. It was controlled by a practical builder of wagons and
carriages--such as Lester's father had been in his day--who,
however, was not a good business man. He was making some small money
on an investment of fifteen thousand dollars and a plant worth, say,
twenty-five thousand. Lester felt that something could be done here if
proper methods were pursued and business acumen exercised. It would be
slow work. There would never be a great fortune in it. Not in his
lifetime. He was thinking of making an offer to the small manufacturer
when the first rumors of a carriage trust reached him.

Robert had gone ahead rapidly with his scheme for reorganizing the
carriage trade. He showed his competitors how much greater profits
could be made through consolidation than through a mutually
destructive rivalry. So convincing were his arguments that one by one
the big carriage manufacturing companies fell into line. Within a few
months the deal had been pushed through, and Robert found himself
president of the United Carriage and Wagon Manufacturers' Association,
with a capital stock of ten million dollars, and with assets
aggregating nearly three-fourths of that sum at a forced sale. He was
a happy man.

While all this was going forward Lester was completely in the dark.
His trip to Europe prevented him from seeing three or four minor
notices in the newspapers of some of the efforts that were being made
to unite the various carriage and wagon manufactories. He returned to
Chicago to learn that Jefferson Midgely, Imogene's husband, was still
in full charge of the branch and living in Evanston, but because of
his quarrel with his family he was in no position to get the news
direct. Accident brought it fast enough, however, and that rather
irritatingly.

The individual who conveyed this information was none other than
Mr. Henry Bracebridge, of Cleveland, into whom he ran at the Union
Club one evening after he had been in the city a month.

"I hear you're out of the old company," Bracebridge remarked,
smiling blandly.

"Yes," said Lester, "I'm out."

"What are you up to now?"

"Oh, I have a deal of my own under consideration, I'm thinking
something of handling an independent concern."

"Surely you won't run counter to your brother? He has a pretty good
thing in that combination of his."

"Combination! I hadn't heard of it," said Lester. "I've just got
back from Europe."

"Well, you want to wake up, Lester," replied Bracebridge. "He's got
the biggest thing in your line. I thought you knew all about it. The
Lyman-Winthrop Company, the Myer-Brooks Company, the Woods
Company--in fact, five or six of the big companies are all in.
Your brother was elected president of the new concern. I dare say he
cleaned up a couple of millions out of the deal."

Lester stared. His glance hardened a little.

"Well, that's fine for Robert. I'm glad of it."

Bracebridge could see that he had given him a vital stab.

"Well, so long, old man," he exclaimed. "When you're in Cleveland
look us up. You know how fond my wife is of you."

"I know," replied Lester. "By-by."

He strolled away to the smoking-room, but the news took all the
zest out of his private venture. Where would he be with a shabby
little wagon company and his brother president of a carriage trust?
Good heavens! Robert could put him out of business in a year. Why, he
himself had dreamed of such a combination as this. Now his brother had
done it.

It is one thing to have youth, courage, and a fighting spirit to
meet the blows with which fortune often afflicts the talented. It is
quite another to see middle age coming on, your principal fortune
possibly gone, and avenue after avenue of opportunity being sealed to
you on various sides. Jennie's obvious social insufficiency, the
quality of newspaper reputation which had now become attached to her,
his father's opposition and death, the loss of his fortune, the loss
of his connection with the company, his brother's attitude, this
trust, all combined in a way to dishearten and discourage him. He
tried to keep a brave face--and he had succeeded thus far, he
thought, admirably, but this last blow appeared for the time being a
little too much. He went home, the same evening that he heard the
news, sorely disheartened. Jennie saw it. She realized it, as a matter
of fact, all during the evening that he was away. She felt blue and
despondent herself. When he came home she saw what it
was--something had happened to him. Her first impulse was to say,
"What is the matter, Lester?" but her next and sounder one was to
ignore it until he was ready to speak, if ever. She tried not to let
him see that she saw, coming as near as she might affectionately
without disturbing him.

"Vesta is so delighted with herself to-day," she volunteered by way
of diversion. "She got such nice marks in school."

"That's good," he replied solemnly.

"And she dances beautifully these days. She showed me some of her
new dances to-night. You haven't any idea how sweet she looks."

"I'm glad of it," he grumbled. "I always wanted her to be perfect
in that. It's time she was going into some good girls' school, I
think."

"And papa gets in such a rage. I have to laugh. She teases him
about it--the little imp. She offered to teach him to dance
to-night. If he didn't love her so he'd box her ears."

"I can see that," said Lester, smiling. "Him dancing! That's pretty
good!"

"She's not the least bit disturbed by his storming, either."

"Good for her," said Lester. He was very fond of Vesta, who was now
quite a girl.

So Jennie tripped on until his mood was modified a little, and then
some inkling of what had happened came out. It was when they were
retiring for the night. "Robert's formulated a pretty big thing in a
financial way since we've been away," he volunteered.

"What is it?" asked Jennie, all ears.

"Oh, he's gotten up a carriage trust. It's something which will
take in every manufactory of any importance in the country.
Bracebridge was telling me that Robert was made president, and that
they have nearly eight millions in capital."

"You don't say!" replied Jennie. "Well, then you won't want to do
much with your new company, will you?"

"No; there's nothing in that, just now," he said. "Later on I fancy
it may be all right. I'll wait and see how this thing comes out. You
never can tell what a trust like that will do."

Jennie was intensely sorry. She had never heard Lester complain
before. It was a new note. She wished sincerely that she might do
something to comfort him, but she knew that her efforts were useless.
"Oh, well," she said, "there are so many interesting things in this
world. If I were you I wouldn't be in a hurry to do anything, Lester.
You have so much time."

She didn't trust herself to say anything more, and he felt that it
was useless to worry. Why should he? After all, he had an ample income
that was absolutely secure for two years yet. He could have more if he
wanted it. Only his brother was moving so dazzlingly onward, while he
was standing still--perhaps "drifting" would be the better word.
It did seem a pity; worst of all, he was beginning to feel a little
uncertain of himself.




CHAPTER XLVIII


Lester had been doing some pretty hard thinking, but so far he had
been unable to formulate any feasible plan for his re-entrance into
active life. The successful organization of Robert's carriage trade
trust had knocked in the head any further thought on his part of
taking an interest in the small Indiana wagon manufactory. He could
not be expected to sink his sense of pride and place, and enter a
petty campaign for business success with a man who was so obviously
his financial superior. He had looked up the details of the
combination, and he found that Bracebridge had barely indicated how
wonderfully complete it was. There were millions in the combine. It
would have every little manufacturer by the throat. Should he begin
now in a small way and "pike along" in the shadow of his giant
brother? He couldn't see it. It was too ignominious. He would be
running around the country trying to fight a new trust, with his own
brother as his tolerant rival and his own rightful capital arrayed
against him. It couldn't be done. Better sit still for the time being.
Something else might show up. If not--well, he had his
independent income and the right to come back into the Kane Company if
he wished. Did he wish? The question was always with him.

It was while Lester was in this mood, drifting, that he received a
visit from Samuel E. Ross, a real estate dealer, whose great, wooden
signs might be seen everywhere on the windy stretches of prairie about
the city. Lester had seen Ross once or twice at the Union Club, where
he had been pointed out as a daring and successful real estate
speculator, and he had noticed his rather conspicuous offices at La
Salle and Washington streets. Ross was a magnetic-looking person of
about fifty years of age, tall, black-bearded, black-eyed, an arched,
wide-nostriled nose, and hair that curled naturally, almost
electrically. Lester was impressed with his lithe, cat-like figure,
and his long, thin, impressive white hands.

Mr. Ross had a real estate proposition to lay before Mr. Kane. Of
course Mr. Kane knew who he was. And Mr. Ross admitted fully that he
knew all about Mr. Kane. Recently, in conjunction with Mr. Norman
Yale, of the wholesale grocery firm of Yale, Simpson & Rice, he
had developed "Yalewood." Mr. Kane knew of that?

Yes, Mr. Kane knew of that.

Only within six weeks the last lots in the Ridgewood section of
"Yalewood" had been closed out at a total profit of forty-two per
cent. He went over a list of other deals in real estate which he had
put through, all well-known properties. He admitted frankly that there
were failures in the business; he had had one or two himself. But the
successes far outnumbered the bad speculations, as every one knew. Now
Lester was no longer connected with the Kane Company. He was probably
looking for a good investment, and Mr. Ross had a proposition to lay
before him. Lester consented to listen, and Mr. Ross blinked his
cat-like eyes and started in.

The idea was that he and Lester should enter into a one-deal
partnership, covering the purchase and development of a forty-acre
tract of land lying between Fifty-fifth, Seventy-first, Halstead
streets, and Ashland Avenue, on the southwest side. There were
indications of a genuine real estate boom there--healthy,
natural, and permanent. The city was about to pave Fifty-fifth Street.
There was a plan to extend the Halstead Street car line far below its
present terminus. The Chicago, Burlington & Quincy, which ran near
there, would be glad to put a passenger station on the property. The
initial cost of the land would be forty thousand dollars which they
would share equally. Grading, paving, lighting, tree planting,
surveying would cost, roughly, an additional twenty-five thousand.
There would be expenses for advertising--say ten per cent, of the
total investment for two years, or perhaps three--a total of
nineteen thousand five hundred or twenty thousand dollars. All told,
they would stand to invest jointly the sum of ninety-five thousand, or
possibly one hundred thousand dollars, of which Lester's share would
be fifty thousand. Then Mr. Ross began to figure on the profits.

The character of the land, its salability, and the likelihood of a
rise in value could be judged by the property adjacent, the sales that
had been made north of Fifty-fifth Street and east of Halstead. Take,
for instance, the Mortimer plot, at Halstead and Fifty-fifth streets,
on the south-east corner. Here was a piece of land that in 1882 was
held at forty-five dollars an acre. In 1886 it had risen to five
hundred dollars an acre, as attested by its sale to a Mr. John L.
Slosson at that time. In 1889, three years later, it had been sold to
Mr. Mortimer for one thousand per acre, precisely the figure at which
this tract was now offered. It could be parceled out into lots fifty
by one hundred feet at five hundred dollars per lot. Was there any
profit in that?

Lester admitted that there was.

Ross went on, somewhat boastfully, to explain just how real estate
profits were made. It was useless for any outsider to rush into the
game, and imagine that he could do in a few weeks or years what
trained real estate speculators like himself had been working on for a
quarter of a century. There was something in prestige, something in
taste, something in psychic apprehension. Supposing that they went
into the deal, he, Ross, would be the presiding genius. He had a
trained staff, he controlled giant contractors, he had friends in the
tax office, in the water office, and in the various other city
departments which made or marred city improvements. If Lester would
come in with him he would make him some money--how much he would
not say exactly--fifty thousand dollars at the lowest--one
hundred and fifty to two hundred thousand in all likelihood. Would
Lester let him go into details, and explain just how the scheme could
be worked out? After a few days of quiet cogitation, Lester decided to
accede to Mr. Ross's request; he would look into this thing.




CHAPTER XLIX


The peculiarity of this particular proposition was that it had the
basic elements of success. Mr. Ross had the experience and the
judgment which were quite capable of making a success of almost
anything he undertook. He was in a field which was entirely familiar.
He could convince almost any able man if he could get his ear
sufficiently long to lay his facts before him.

Lester was not convinced at first, although, generally speaking, he
was interested in real estate propositions. He liked land. He
considered it a sound investment providing you did not get too much of
it. He had never invested in any, or scarcely any, solely because he
had not been in a realm where real estate propositions were talked of.
As it was he was landless and, in a way, jobless.

He rather liked Mr. Ross and his way of doing business. It was easy
to verify his statements, and he did verify them in several
particulars. There were his signs out on the prairie stretches, and
here were his ads in the daily papers. It seemed not a bad way at all
in his idleness to start and make some money.

The trouble with Lester was that he had reached the time where he
was not as keen for details as he had formerly been. All his work in
recent years--in fact, from the very beginning--had been
with large propositions, the purchasing of great quantities of
supplies, the placing of large orders, the discussion of things which
were wholesale and which had very little to do with the minor details
which make up the special interests of the smaller traders of the
world. In the factory his brother Robert had figured the pennies and
nickels of labor-cost, had seen to it that all the little leaks were
shut off. Lester had been left to deal with larger things, and he had
consistently done so. When it came to this particular proposition his
interest was in the wholesale phases of it, not the petty details of
selling. He could not help seeing that Chicago was a growing city, and
that land values must rise. What was now far-out prairie property
would soon, in the course of a few years, be well built-up suburban
residence territory. Scarcely any land that could be purchased now
would fall in value. It might drag in sales or increase, but it
couldn't fall. Ross convinced him of this. He knew it of his own
judgment to be true.

The several things on which he did not speculate sufficiently were
the life or health of Mr. Ross; the chance that some obnoxious
neighborhood growth would affect the territory he had selected as
residence territory; the fact that difficult money situations might
reduce real estate values--in fact, bring about a flurry of real
estate liquidation which would send prices crashing down and cause the
failure of strong promoters, even such promoters for instance, as Mr.
Samuel E. Ross.

For several months he studied the situation as presented by his new
guide and mentor, and then, having satisfied himself that he was
reasonably safe, decided to sell some of the holdings which were
netting him a beggarly six per cent, and invest in this new
proposition. The first cash outlay was twenty thousand dollars for the
land, which was taken over under an operative agreement between
himself and Ross; this was run indefinitely--so long as there was
any of this land left to sell. The next thing was to raise twelve
thousand five hundred dollars for improvements, which he did, and then
to furnish some twenty-five hundred dollars more for taxes and
unconsidered expenses, items which had come up in carrying out the
improvement work which had been planned. It seemed that hard and soft
earth made a difference in grading costs, that trees would not always
flourish as expected, that certain members of the city water and gas
departments had to be "seen" and "fixed" before certain other
improvements could be effected. Mr. Ross attended to all this, but the
cost of the proceedings was something which had to be discussed, and
Lester heard it all.

After the land was put in shape, about a year after the original
conversation, it was necessary to wait until spring for the proper
advertising and booming of the new section; and this advertising began
to call at once for the third payment. Lester disposed of an
additional fifteen thousand dollars worth of securities in order to
follow this venture to its logical and profitable conclusion.

Up to this time he was rather pleased with his venture. Ross had
certainly been thorough and business-like in his handling of the
various details. The land was put in excellent shape. It was given a
rather attractive title--"Inwood," although, as Lester noted,
there was precious little wood anywhere around there. But Ross assured
him that people looking for a suburban residence would be attracted by
the name; seeing the vigorous efforts in tree-planting that had been
made to provide for shade in the future, they would take the will for
the deed. Lester smiled.

The first chill wind that blew upon the infant project came in the
form of a rumor that the International Packing Company, one of the big
constituent members of the packing house combination at Halstead and
Thirty-ninth streets, had determined to desert the old group and lay
out a new packing area for itself. The papers explained that the
company intended to go farther south, probably below Fifty-fifth
Street and west of Ashland Avenue. This was the territory that was
located due west of Lester's property, and the mere suspicion that the
packing company might invade the territory was sufficient to blight
the prospects of any budding real estate deal.

Ross was beside himself with rage. He decided, after quick
deliberation, that the best thing to do would be to boom the property
heavily, by means of newspaper advertising, and see if it could not be
disposed of before any additional damage was likely to be done to it.
He laid the matter before Lester, who agreed that this would be
advisable. They had already expended six thousand dollars in
advertising, and now the additional sum of three thousand dollars was
spent in ten days, to make it appear that In wood was an ideal
residence section, equipped with every modern convenience for the
home-lover, and destined to be one of the most exclusive and beautiful
suburbs of the city. It was "no go." A few lots were sold, but the
rumor that the International Packing Company might come was persistent
and deadly; from any point of view, save that of a foreign population
neighborhood, the enterprise was a failure.

To say that Lester was greatly disheartened by this blow is to put
it mildly. Practically fifty thousand dollars, two-thirds of all his
earthly possessions, outside of his stipulated annual income, was tied
up here; and there were taxes to pay, repairs to maintain, actual
depreciation in value to face. He suggested to Ross that the area
might be sold at its cost value, or a loan raised on it, and the whole
enterprise abandoned; but that experienced real estate dealer was not
so sanguine. He had had one or two failures of this kind before. He
was superstitious about anything which did not go smoothly from the
beginning. If it didn't go it was a hoodoo--a black
shadow--and he wanted no more to do with it. Other real estate
men, as he knew to his cost, were of the same opinion.

Some three years later the property was sold under the sheriff's
hammer. Lester, having put in fifty thousand dollars all told,
recovered a trifle more than eighteen thousand; and some of his wise
friends assured him that he was lucky in getting off so easily.




CHAPTER L


While the real estate deal was in progress Mrs. Gerald decided to
move to Chicago. She had been staying in Cincinnati for a few months,
and had learned a great deal as to the real facts of Lester's
irregular mode of life. The question whether or not he was really
married to Jennie remained an open one. The garbled details of
Jennie's early years, the fact that a Chicago paper had written him up
as a young millionaire who was sacrificing his fortune for love of
her, the certainty that Robert had practically eliminated him from any
voice in the Kane Company, all came to her ears. She hated to think
that Lester was making such a sacrifice of himself. He had let nearly
a year slip by without doing anything. In two more years his chance
would be gone. He had said to her in London that he was without many
illusions. Was Jennie one? Did he really love her, or was he just
sorry for her? Letty wanted very much to find out for sure.

The house that Mrs. Gerald leased in Chicago was a most imposing
one on Drexel Boulevard. "I'm going to take a house in your town this
winter, and I hope to see a lot of you," she wrote to Lester. "I'm
awfully bored with life here in Cincinnati. After Europe it's
so--well, you know. I saw Mrs. Knowles on Saturday. She asked
after you. You ought to know that you have a loving friend in her. Her
daughter is going to marry Jimmy Severance in the spring."

Lester thought of her coming with mingled feelings of pleasure and
uncertainty. She would be entertaining largely, of course. Would she
foolishly begin by attempting to invite him and Jennie? Surely not.
She must know the truth by this time. Her letter indicated as much.
She spoke of seeing a lot of him. That meant that Jennie would have to
be eliminated. He would have to make a clean breast of the whole
affair to Letty. Then she could do as she pleased about their future
intimacy. Seated in Letty's comfortable boudoir one afternoon, facing
a vision of loveliness in pale yellow, he decided that he might as
well have it out with her. She would understand. Just at this time he
was beginning to doubt the outcome of the real estate deal, and
consequently he was feeling a little blue, and, as a concomitant, a
little confidential. He could not as yet talk to Jennie about his
troubles.

"You know, Lester," said Letty, by way of helping him to his
confession--the maid had brought tea for her and some brandy and
soda for him, and departed--"that I have been hearing a lot of
things about you since I've been back in this country. Aren't you
going to tell me all about yourself? You know I have your real
interests at heart."

"What have you been hearing, Letty?" he asked, quietly.

"Oh, about your father's will for one thing, and the fact that
you're out of the company, and some gossip about Mrs. Kane which
doesn't interest me very much. You know what I mean. Aren't you going
to straighten things out, so that you can have what rightfully belongs
to you? It seems to me such a great sacrifice, Lester, unless, of
course, you are very much in love. Are you?" she asked archly.

Lester paused and deliberated before replying. "I really don't know
how to answer that last question, Letty," he said. "Sometimes I think
that I love her; sometimes I wonder whether I do or not. I'm going to
be perfectly frank with you. I was never in such a curious position in
my life before. You like me so much, and I--well, I don't say
what I think of you," he smiled. "But anyhow, I can talk to you
frankly. I'm not married."

"I thought as much," she said, as he paused.

"And I'm not married because I have never been able to make up my
mind just what to do about it. When I first met Jennie I thought her
the most entrancing girl I had ever laid eyes on."

"That speaks volumes for my charms at that time," interrupted his
vis-a-vis.

"Don't interrupt me if you want to hear this," he smiled.

"Tell me one thing," she questioned, "and then I won't. Was that in
Cleveland?"

"Yes."

"So I heard," she assented.

"There was something about her so--"

"Love at first sight," again interpolated Letty foolishly. Her
heart was hurting her. "I know."

"Are you going to let me tell this?"

"Pardon me, Lester. I can't help a twinge or two."

"Well, anyhow, I lost my head. I thought she was the most perfect
thing under the sun, even if she was a little out of my world. This is
a democratic country. I thought that I could just take her, and
then--well, you know. That is where I made my mistake. I didn't
think that would prove as serious as it did. I never cared for any
other woman but you before and--I'll be frank--I didn't know
whether I wanted to marry you. I thought I didn't want to marry any
woman. I said to myself that I could just take Jennie, and then, after
a while, when things had quieted down some, we could separate. She
would be well provided for. I wouldn't care very much. She wouldn't
care. You understand."

"Yes, I understand," replied his confessor.

"Well, you see, Letty, it hasn't worked out that way. She's a woman
of a curious temperament. She possesses a world of feeling and
emotion. She's not educated in the sense in which we understand that
word, but she has natural refinement and tact. She's a good
housekeeper. She's an ideal mother. She's the most affectionate
creature under the sun. Her devotion to her mother and father was
beyond words. Her love for her--daughter she's hers, not
mine--is perfect. She hasn't any of the graces of the smart
society woman. She isn't quick at repartee. She can't join in any
rapid-fire conversation. She thinks rather slowly, I imagine. Some of
her big thoughts never come to the surface at all, but you can feel
that she is thinking and that she is feeling."

"You pay her a lovely tribute, Lester," said Letty.

"I ought to," he replied. "She's a good woman, Letty; but, for all
that I have said, I sometimes think that it's only sympathy that's
holding me."

"Don't be too sure," she said warningly.

"Yes, but I've gone through with a great deal. The thing for me to
have done was to have married her in the first place. There have been
so many entanglements since, so much rowing and discussion, that I've
rather lost my bearings. This will of father's complicates matters. I
stand to lose eight hundred thousand if I marry her--really, a
great deal more, now that the company has been organized into a trust.
I might better say two millions. If I don't marry her, I lose
everything outright in about two more years. Of course, I might
pretend that I have separated from her, but I don't care to lie. I
can't work it out that way without hurting her feelings, and she's
been the soul of devotion. Right down in my heart, at this minute, I
don't know whether I want to give her up. Honestly, I don't know what
the devil to do."

Lester looked, lit a cigar in a far-off, speculative fashion, and
looked out of the window.

"Was there ever such a problem?" questioned Letty, staring at the
floor. She rose, after a few moments of silence, and put her hands on
his round, solid head. Her yellow, silken house-gown, faintly scented,
touched his shoulders. "Poor Lester," she said. "You certainly have
tied yourself up in a knot. But it's a Gordian knot, my dear, and it
will have to be cut. Why don't you discuss this whole thing with her,
just as you have with me, and see how she feels about it?"

"It seems such an unkind thing to do," he replied.

"You must take some action, Lester dear," she insisted. "You can't
just drift. You are doing yourself such a great injustice. Frankly, I
can't advise you to marry her; and I'm not speaking for myself in
that, though I'll take you gladly, even if you did forsake me in the
first place. I'll be perfectly honest--whether you ever come to
me or not--I love you, and always shall love you."

"I know it," said Lester, getting up. He took her hands in his, and
studied her face curiously. Then he turned away. Letty paused to get
her breath. His action discomposed her.

"But you're too big a man, Lester, to settle down on ten thousand a
year," she continued. "You're too much of a social figure to drift.
You ought to get back into the social and financial world where you
belong. All that's happened won't injure you, if you reclaim your
interest in the company. You can dictate your own terms. And if you
tell her the truth she won't object, I'm sure. If she cares for you,
as you think she does, she will be glad to make this sacrifice. I'm
positive of that. You can provide for her handsomely, of course."

"It isn't the money that Jennie wants," said Lester, gloomily.

"Well, even if it isn't, she can live without you and she can live
better for having an ample income."

"She will never want if I can help it," he said solemnly.

"You must leave her," she urged, with a new touch of decisiveness.
"You must. Every day is precious with you, Lester! Why don't you make
up your mind to act at once--to-day, for that matter? Why
not?"

"Not so fast," he protested. "This is a ticklish business. To tell
you the truth, I hate to do it. It seems so brutal--so unfair.
I'm not one to run around and discuss my affairs with other people.
I've refused to talk about this to any one heretofore--my father,
my mother, any one. But somehow you have always seemed closer to me
than any one else, and, since I met you this time, I have felt as
though I ought to explain--I have really wanted to. I care for
you. I don't know whether you understand how that can be under the
circumstances. But I do. You're nearer to me intellectually and
emotionally than I thought you were. Don't frown. You want the truth,
don't you? Well, there you have it. Now explain me to myself, if you
can."

"I don't want to argue with you, Lester," she said softly, laying
her hand on his arm. "I merely want to love you. I understand quite
well how it has all come about. I'm sorry for myself. I'm sorry for
you. I'm sorry--" she hesitated--"for Mrs. Kane. She's a
charming woman. I like her. I really do. But she isn't the woman for
you, Lester; she really isn't. You need another type. It seems so
unfair for us two to discuss her in this way, but really it isn't. We
all have to stand on our merits. And I'm satisfied, if the facts in
this case were put before her, as you have put them before me, she
would see just how it all is, and agree. She can't want to harm you.
Why, Lester, if I were in her position I would let you go. I would,
truly. I think you know that I would. Any good woman would. It would
hurt me, but I'd do it. It will hurt her, but she'll do it. Now, mark
you my words, she will. I think I understand her as well as you
do--better--for I am a woman. Oh," she said, pausing, "I
wish I were in a position to talk to her. I could make her
understand."

Lester looked at Letty, wondering at her eagerness. She was
beautiful, magnetic, immensely worth while.

"Not so fast," he repeated. "I want to think about this. I have
some time yet."

She paused, a little crestfallen but determined.

"This is the time to act," she repeated, her whole soul in her
eyes. She wanted this man, and she was not ashamed to let him see that
she wanted him.

"Well, I'll think of it," he said uneasily, then, rather hastily,
he bade her good-by and went away.




CHAPTER LI


Lester had thought of his predicament earnestly enough, and he
would have been satisfied to act soon if it had not been that one of
those disrupting influences which sometimes complicate our affairs
entered into his Hyde Park domicile. Gerhardt's health began rapidly
to fail.

Little by little he had been obliged to give up his various duties
about the place; finally he was obliged to take to his bed. He lay in
his room, devotedly attended by Jennie and visited constantly by
Vesta, and occasionally by Lester. There was a window not far from his
bed, which commanded a charming view of the lawn and one of the
surrounding streets, and through this he would gaze by the hour,
wondering how the world was getting on without him. He suspected that
Woods, the coachman, was not looking after the horses and harnesses as
well as he should, that the newspaper carrier was getting negligent in
his delivery of the papers, that the furnace man was wasting coal, or
was not giving them enough heat. A score of little petty worries,
which were nevertheless real enough to him. He knew how a house should
be kept. He was always rigid in his performance of his self-appointed
duties, and he was so afraid that things would not go right. Jennie
made for him a most imposing and sumptuous dressing-gown of basted
wool, covered with dark-blue silk, and bought him a pair of soft,
thick, wool slippers to match, but he did not wear them often. He
preferred to lie in bed, read his Bible and the Lutheran papers, and
ask Jennie how things were getting along.

"I want you should go down in the basement and see what that feller
is doing. He's not giving us any heat," he would complain. "I bet I
know what he does. He sits down there and reads, and then he forgets
what the fire is doing until it is almost out. The beer is right there
where he can take it. You should lock it up. You don't know what kind
of a man he is. He may be no good."

Jennie would protest that the house was fairly comfortable, that
the man was a nice, quiet, respectable-looking American--that if
he did drink a little beer it would not matter. Gerhardt would
immediately become incensed.

"That is always the way," he declared vigorously. "You have no
sense of economy. You are always so ready to let things go if I am not
there. He is a nice man! How do you know he is a nice man? Does he
keep the fire up? No! Does he keep the walks clean? If you don't watch
him he will be just like the others, no good. You should go around and
see how things are for yourself."

"All right, papa," she would reply in a genial effort to soothe
him, "I will. Please don't worry. I'll lock up the beer. Don't you
want a cup of coffee now and some toast?"

"No," Gerhardt would sigh immediately, "my stomach it don't do
right. I don't know how I am going to come out of this."

Dr. Makin, the leading physician of the vicinity, and a man of
considerable experience and ability, called at Jennie's request and
suggested a few simple things--hot milk, a wine tonic, rest, but
he told Jennie that she must not expect too much. "You know he is
quite well along in years now. He is quite feeble. If he were twenty
years younger we might do a great deal for him. As it is he is quite
well off where he is. He may live for some time. He may get up and be
around again, and then he may not. We must all expect these things. I
have never any care as to what may happen to me. I am too old
myself."

Jennie felt sorry to think that her father might die, but she was
pleased to think that if he must it was going to be under such
comfortable circumstances. Here at least he could have every care.

It soon became evident that this was Gerhardt's last illness, and
Jennie thought it her duty to communicate with her brothers and
sisters. She wrote Bass that his father was not well, and had a letter
from him saying that he was very busy and couldn't come on unless the
danger was an immediate one. He went on to say that George was in
Rochester, working for a wholesale wall-paper house--the
Sheff-Jefferson Company, he thought. Martha and her husband had gone
to Boston. Her address was a little suburb named Belmont, just outside
the city. William was in Omaha, working for a local electric company.
Veronica was married to a man named Albert Sheridan, who was connected
with a wholesale drug company in Cleveland. "She never comes to see
me," complained Bass, "but I'll let her know." Jennie wrote each one
personally. From Veronica and Martha she received brief replies. They
were very sorry, and would she let them know if anything happened.
George wrote that he could not think of coming to Chicago unless his
father was very ill indeed, but that he would like to be informed from
time to time how he was getting along. William, as he told Jennie some
time afterward, did not get her letter.

The progress of the old German's malady toward final dissolution
preyed greatly on Jennie's mind; for, in spite of the fact that they
had been so far apart in times past, they had now grown very close
together. Gerhardt had come to realize clearly that his outcast
daughter was goodness itself--at least, so far as he was
concerned. She never quarreled with him, never crossed him in any way.
Now that he was sick, she was in and out of his room a dozen times in
an evening or an afternoon, seeing whether he was "all right," asking
how he liked his breakfast, or his lunch, or his dinner. As he grew
weaker she would sit by him and read, or do her sewing in his room.
One day when she was straightening his pillow he took her hand and
kissed it. He was feeling very weak--and despondent. She looked
up in astonishment, a lump in her throat. There were tears in his
eyes.

"You're a good girl, Jennie," he said brokenly. "You've been good
to me. I've been hard and cross, but I'm an old man. You forgive me,
don't you?"

"Oh, papa, please don't," she pleaded, tears welling from her eyes.
"You know I have nothing to forgive. I'm the one who has been all
wrong."

"No, no," he said; and she sank down on her knees beside him and
cried. He put his thin, yellow hand on her hair. "There, there," he
said brokenly, "I understand a lot of things I didn't. We get wiser as
we get older."

She left the room, ostensibly to wash her face and hands, and cried
her eyes out. Was he really forgiving her at last? And she had lied to
him so! She tried to be more attentive, but that was impossible. But
after this reconciliation he seemed happier and more contented, and
they spent a number of happy hours together, just talking. Once he
said to her, "You know I feel just like I did when I was a boy. If it
wasn't for my bones I could get up and dance on the grass."

Jennie fairly smiled and sobbed in one breath. "You'll get
stronger, papa," she said. "You're going to get well. Then I'll take
you out driving." She was so glad she had been able to make him
comfortable these last few years.

As for Lester, he was affectionate and considerate.

"Well, how is it to-night?" he would ask the moment he entered the
house, and he would always drop in for a few minutes before dinner to
see how the old man was getting along. "He looks pretty well," he
would tell Jennie. "He's apt to live some time yet. I wouldn't
worry."

Vesta also spent much time with her grandfather, for she had come
to love him dearly. She would bring her books, if it didn't disturb
him too much, and recite some of her lessons, or she would leave his
door open, and play for him on the piano. Lester had bought her a
handsome music-box also, which she would sometimes carry to his room
and play for him. At times he wearied of everything and everybody save
Jennie; he wanted to be alone with her. She would sit beside him quite
still and sew. She could see plainly that the end was only a little
way off.

Gerhardt, true to his nature, took into consideration all the
various arrangements contingent upon his death. He wished to be buried
in the little Lutheran cemetery, which was several miles farther out
on the South Side, and he wanted the beloved minister of his church to
officiate.

"I want everything plain," he said. "Just my black suit and those
Sunday shoes of mine, and that black string tie. I don't want anything
else. I will be all right."

Jennie begged him not to talk of it, but he would. One day at four
o'clock he had a sudden sinking spell, and at five he was dead. Jennie
held his hands, watching his labored breathing; once or twice he
opened his eyes to smile at her. "I don't mind going," he said, in
this final hour. "I've done what I could."

"Don't talk of dying, papa," she pleaded.

"It's the end," he said. "You've been good to me. You're a good
woman."

She heard no other words from his lips.

The finish which time thus put to this troubled life affected
Jennie deeply. Strong in her kindly, emotional relationships, Gerhardt
had appealed to her not only as her father, but as a friend and
counselor. She saw him now in his true perspective, a hard-working,
honest, sincere old German, who had done his best to raise a
troublesome family and lead an honest life. Truly she had been his one
great burden, and she had never really dealt truthfully with him to
the end. She wondered now if where he was he could see that she had
lied. And would he forgive her? He had called her a good woman.

Telegrams were sent to all the children. Bass wired that he was
coming, and arrived the next day. The others wired that they could not
come, but asked for details, which Jennie wrote. The Lutheran minister
was called in to say prayers and fix the time of the burial service. A
fat, smug undertaker was commissioned to arrange all the details. Some
few neighborhood friends called--those who had remained most
faithful--and on the second morning following his death the
services were held. Lester accompanied Jennie and Vesta and Bass to
the little red brick Lutheran church, and sat stolidly through the
rather dry services. He listened wearily to the long discourse on the
beauties and rewards of a future life and stirred irritably when
reference was made to a hell. Bass was rather bored, but considerate.
He looked upon his father now much as he would on any other man. Only
Jennie wept sympathetically. She saw her father in perspective, the
long years of trouble he had had, the days in which he had had to saw
wood for a living, the days in which he had lived in a factory loft,
the little shabby house they had been compelled to live in in
Thirteenth Street, the terrible days of suffering they had spent in
Lorrie Street, in Cleveland, his grief over her, his grief over Mrs.
Gerhardt, his love and care of Vesta, and finally these last days.

"Oh, he was a good man," she thought. "He meant so well." They sang
a hymn, "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God," and then she sobbed.

Lester pulled at her arm. He was moved to the danger-line himself
by her grief. "You'll have to do better than this," he whispered. "My
God, I can't stand it. I'll have to get up and get out." Jennie
quieted a little, but the fact that the last visible ties were being
broken between her and her father was almost too much.

At the grave in the Cemetery of the Redeemer, where Lester had
immediately arranged to purchase a lot, they saw the plain coffin
lowered and the earth shoveled in. Lester looked curiously at the bare
trees, the brown dead grass, and the brown soil of the prairie turned
up at this simple graveside. There was no distinction to this burial
plot. It was commonplace and shabby, a working-man's resting-place,
but so long as he wanted it, it was all right. He studied Bass's keen,
lean face, wondering what sort of a career he was cutting out for
himself. Bass looked to him like some one who would run a cigar store
successfully. He watched Jennie wiping her red eyes, and then he said
to himself again, "Well, there is something to her." The woman's
emotion was so deep, so real. "There's no explaining a good woman," he
said to himself.

On the way home, through the wind-swept, dusty streets, he talked
of life in general, Bass and Vesta being present. "Jennie takes things
too seriously," he said. "She's inclined to be morbid. Life isn't as
bad as she makes out with her sensitive feelings. We all have our
troubles, and we all have to stand them, some more, some less. We
can't assume that any one is so much better or worse off than any one
else. We all have our share of troubles."

"I can't help it," said Jennie. "I feel so sorry for some
people."

"Jennie always was a little gloomy," put in Bass.

He was thinking what a fine figure of a man Lester was, how
beautifully they lived, how Jennie had come up in the world. He was
thinking that there must be a lot more to her than he had originally
thought. Life surely did turn out queer. At one time he thought Jennie
was a hopeless failure and no good.

"You ought to try to steel yourself to take things as they come
without going to pieces this way," said Lester finally.

Bass thought so too.

Jennie stared thoughtfully out of the carriage window. There was
the old house now, large and silent without Gerhardt. Just think, she
would never see him any more. They finally turned into the drive and
entered the library. Jeannette, nervous and sympathetic, served tea.
Jennie went to look after various details. She wondered curiously
where she would be when she died.




CHAPTER LII


The fact that Gerhardt was dead made no particular difference to
Lester, except as it affected Jennie. He had liked the old German for
his many sterling qualities, but beyond that he thought nothing of him
one way or the other. He took Jennie to a watering-place for ten days
to help her recover her spirits, and it was soon after this that he
decided to tell her just how things stood with him; he would put the
problem plainly before her. It would be easier now, for Jennie had
been informed of the disastrous prospects of the real-estate deal. She
was also aware of his continued interest in Mrs. Gerald. Lester did
not hesitate to let Jennie know that he was on very friendly terms
with her. Mrs. Gerald had, at first, formally requested him to bring
Jennie to see her, but she never had called herself, and Jennie
understood quite clearly that it was not to be. Now that her father
was dead, she was beginning to wonder what was going to become of her;
she was afraid that Lester might not marry her. Certainly he showed no
signs of intending to do so.

By one of those curious coincidences of thought, Robert also had
reached the conclusion that something should be done. He did not, for
one moment, imagine that he could directly work upon Lester--he
did not care to try--but he did think that some influence might
be brought to bear on Jennie. She was probably amenable to reason. If
Lester had not married her already, she must realize full well that he
did not intend to do so. Suppose that some responsible third person
were to approach her, and explain how things were, including, of
course, the offer of an independent income? Might she not be willing
to leave Lester, and end all this trouble? After all, Lester was his
brother, and he ought not to lose his fortune. Robert had things very
much in his own hands now, and could afford to be generous. He finally
decided that Mr. O'Brien, of Knight, Keatley & O'Brien, would be
the proper intermediary, for O'Brien was suave, good-natured, and
well-meaning, even if he was a lawyer. He might explain to Jennie very
delicately just how the family felt, and how much Lester stood to lose
if he continued to maintain his connection with her. If Lester had
married Jennie, O'Brien would find it out. A liberal provision would
be made for her--say fifty or one hundred thousand, or even one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars. He sent for Mr. O'Brien and gave
him his instructions. As one of the executors of Archibald Kane's
estate, it was really the lawyer's duty to look into the matter of
Lester's ultimate decision.

Mr. O'Brien journeyed to Chicago. On reaching the city, he called
up Lester, and found out to his satisfaction that he was out of town
for the day. He went out to the house in Hyde Park, and sent in his
card to Jennie. She came down-stairs in a few minutes quite
unconscious of the import of his message; he greeted her most
blandly.

"This is Mrs. Kane?" he asked, with an interlocutory jerk of his
head.

"Yes," replied Jennie.

"I am, as you see by my card, Mr. O'Brien, of Knight, Keatley &
O'Brien," he began. "We are the attorneys and executors of the late
Mr. Kane, your--ah--Mr. Kane's father. You'll think it's
rather curious, my coming to you, but under your husband's father's
will there were certain conditions stipulated which affect you and Mr.
Kane very materially. These provisions are so important that I think
you ought to know about them--that is if Mr. Kane hasn't already
told you. I--pardon me--but the peculiar nature of them
makes me conclude that--possibly--he hasn't." He paused, a
very question-mark of a man--every feature of his face an
interrogation.

"I don't quite understand," said Jennie. "I don't know anything
about the will. If there's anything that I ought to know, I suppose
Mr. Kane will tell me. He hasn't told me anything as yet."

"Ah!" breathed Mr. O'Brien, highly gratified. "Just as I thought.
Now, if you will allow me I'll go into the matter briefly. Then you
can judge for yourself whether you wish to hear the full particulars.
Won't you sit down?" They had both been standing. Jennie seated
herself, and Mr. O'Brien pulled up a chair near to hers.

"Now to begin," he said. "I need not say to you, of course, that
there was considerable opposition on the part of Mr. Kane's father, to
this--ah--union between yourself and his son."

"I know--" Jennie started to say, but checked herself. She was
puzzled, disturbed, and a little apprehensive.

"Before Mr. Kane senior died," he went on, "he indicated to
your--ah--to Mr. Lester Kane, that he felt this way. In his
will he made certain conditions governing the distribution of his
property which made it rather hard for his son,
your--ah--husband, to come into his rightful share.
Ordinarily, he would have inherited one-fourth of the Kane
Manufacturing Company, worth to-day in the neighborhood of a million
dollars, perhaps more; also one-fourth of the other properties, which
now aggregate something like five hundred thousand dollars. I believe
Mr. Kane senior was really very anxious that his son should inherit
this property. But owing to the conditions which
your--ah--which Mr. Kane's father made, Mr. Lester Kane
cannot possibly obtain his share, except by complying with
a--with a--certain wish which his father had expressed."

Mr. O'Brien paused, his eyes moving back and forth side wise in
their sockets. In spite of the natural prejudice of the situation, he
was considerably impressed with Jennie's pleasing appearance. He could
see quite plainly why Lester might cling to her in the face of all
opposition. He continued to study her furtively as he sat there
waiting for her to speak.

"And what was that wish?" she finally asked, her nerves becoming
just a little tense under the strain of the silence.

"I am glad you were kind enough to ask me that," he went on. "The
subject is a very difficult one for me to introduce--very
difficult. I come as an emissary of the estate, I might say as one of
the executors under the will of Mr. Kane's father. I know how keenly
your--ah--how keenly Mr. Kane feels about it. I know how
keenly you will probably feel about it. But it is one of those very
difficult things which cannot be helped--which must be got over
somehow. And while I hesitate very much to say so, I must tell you
that Mr. Kane senior stipulated in his will that unless,
unless"--again his eyes were moving sidewise to and fro--"he
saw fit to separate from--ah--you" he paused to get
breath--"he could not inherit this or any other sum or, at least,
only a very minor income of ten thousand a year; and that only on
condition that he should marry you." He paused again. "I should add,"
he went on, "that under the will he was given three years in which to
indicate his intentions. That time is now drawing to a close."

He paused, half expecting some outburst of feeling from Jennie, but
she only looked at him fixedly, her eyes clouded with surprise,
distress, unhappiness. Now she understood. Lester was sacrificing his
fortune for her. His recent commercial venture was an effort to
rehabilitate himself, to put himself in an independent position. The
recent periods of preoccupation, of subtle unrest, and of
dissatisfaction over which she had grieved were now explained. He was
unhappy, he was brooding over this prospective loss, and he had never
told her. So his father had really disinherited him!

Mr. O'Brien sat before her, troubled himself. He was very sorry for
her, now that he saw the expression of her face. Still the truth had
to come out. She ought to know.

"I'm sorry," he said, when he saw that she was not going to make
any immediate reply, "that I have been the bearer of such unfortunate
news. It is a very painful situation that I find myself in at this
moment, I assure you. I bear you no ill will personally--of
course you understand that. The family really bears you no ill will
now--I hope you believe that. As I told your--ah--as I
told Mr. Kane, at the time the will was read, I considered it most
unfair, but, of course, as a mere executive under it and counsel for
his father, I could do nothing. I really think it best that you should
know how things stand, in order that you may help your--your
husband"--he paused, significantly--"if possible, to some
solution. It seems a pity to me, as it does to the various other
members of his family, that he should lose all this money."

Jennie had turned her head away and was staring at the floor. She
faced him now steadily. "He mustn't lose it," she said; "it isn't fair
that he should."

"I am most delighted to hear you say that, Mrs.--Mrs. Kane,"
he went on, using for the first time her improbable title as Lester's
wife, without hesitation. "I may as well be very frank with you, and
say that I feared you might take this information in quite another
spirit. Of course you know to begin with that the Kane family is very
clannish. Mrs. Kane, your--ah--your husband's mother, was a
very proud and rather distant woman, and his sisters and brothers are
rather set in their notions as to what constitute proper family
connections. They look upon his relationship to you as irregular,
and--pardon me if I appear to be a little cruel--as not
generally satisfactory. As you know, there had been so much talk in
the last few years that Mr. Kane senior did not believe that the
situation could ever be nicely adjusted, so far as the family was
concerned. He felt that his son had not gone about it right in the
first place. One of the conditions of his will was that if your
husband--pardon me--if his son did not accept the
proposition in regard to separating from you and taking up his
rightful share of the estate, then to inherit anything at
all--the mere ten thousand a year I mentioned before--he
must--ah--he must pardon me, I seem a little brutal, but not
intentionally so--marry you."

Jennie winced. It was such a cruel thing to say this to her face.
This whole attempt to live together illegally had proved disastrous at
every step. There was only one solution to the unfortunate
business--she could see that plainly. She must leave him, or he
must leave her. There was no other alternative. Lester living on ten
thousand dollars a year! It seemed silly.

Mr. O'Brien was watching her curiously. He was thinking that Lester
both had and had not made a mistake. Why had he not married her in the
first place? She was charming.

"There is just one other point which I wish to make in this
connection, Mrs. Kane," he went on softly and easily. "I see now that
it will not make any difference to you, but I am commissioned and in a
way constrained to make it. I hope you will take it in the manner in
which it is given. I don't know whether you are familiar with your
husband's commercial interests or not?"

"No," said Jennie simply.

"Well, in order to simplify matters, and to make it easier for you,
should you decide to assist your husband to a solution of this very
difficult situation--frankly, in case you might possibly decide
to leave on your own account, and maintain a separate establishment of
your own I am delighted to say that--ah--any sum,
say--ah--"

Jennie rose and walked dazedly to one of the windows, clasping her
hands as she went. Mr. O'Brien rose also.

"Well, be that as it may. In the event of your deciding to end the
connection it has been suggested that any reasonable sum you might
name, fifty, seventy-five, a hundred thousand dollars"--Mr.
O'Brien was feeling very generous toward her--"would be gladly
set aside for your benefit--put in trust, as it were, so that you
would have it whenever you needed it. You would never want for
anything."

"Please don't," said Jennie, hurt beyond the power to express
herself, unable mentally and physically to listen to another word.
"Please don't say any more. Please go away. Let me alone now, please.
I can go away. I will. It will be arranged. But please don't talk to
me any more, will you?"

"I understand how you feel, Mrs. Kane," went on Mr. O'Brien, coming
to a keen realization of her sufferings. "I know exactly, believe me.
I have said all I intend to say. It has been very hard for me to do
this--very hard. I regret the necessity. You have my card. Please
note the name. I will come any time you suggest, or you can write me.
I will not detain you any longer. I am sorry. I hope you will see fit
to say nothing to your husband of my visit--it will be advisable
that you should keep your own counsel in the matter. I value his
friendship very highly, and I am sincerely sorry."

Jennie only stared at the floor.

Mr. O'Brien went out into the hall to get his coat. Jennie touched
the electric button to summon the maid, and Jeannette came. Jennie
went back into the library, and Mr. O'Brien paced briskly down the
front walk. When she was really alone she put her doubled hands to her
chin, and stared at the floor, the queer design of the silken Turkish
rug resolving itself into some curious picture. She saw herself in a
small cottage somewhere, alone with Vesta; she saw Lester living in
another world, and beside him Mrs. Gerald. She saw this house vacant,
and then a long stretch of time, and then--

"Oh," she sighed, choking back a desire to cry. With her hands she
brushed away a hot tear from each eye. Then she got up.

"It must be," she said to herself in thought. "It must be. It
should have been so long ago." And then--"Oh, thank God that papa
is dead Anyhow, he did not live to see this."




CHAPTER LIII


The explanation which Lester had concluded to be inevitable,
whether it led to separation or legalization of their hitherto banal
condition, followed quickly upon the appearance of Mr. O'Brien. On the
day Mr. O'Brien called he had gone on a journey to Hegewisch, a small
manufacturing town in Wisconsin, where he had been invited to witness
the trial of a new motor intended to operate elevators--with a
view to possible investment. When he came out to the house, interested
to tell Jennie something about it even in spite of the fact that he
was thinking of leaving her, he felt a sense of depression everywhere,
for Jennie, in spite of the serious and sensible conclusion she had
reached, was not one who could conceal her feelings easily. She was
brooding sadly over her proposed action, realizing that it was best to
leave but finding it hard to summon the courage which would let her
talk to him about it. She could not go without telling him what she
thought. He ought to want to leave her. She was absolutely convinced
that this one course of action--separation--was necessary
and advisable. She could not think of him as daring to make a
sacrifice of such proportions for her sake even if he wanted to. It
was impossible. It was astonishing to her that he had let things go
along as dangerously and silently as he had.

When he came in Jennie did her best to greet him with her
accustomed smile, but it was a pretty poor imitation.

"Everything all right?" she asked, using her customary phrase of
inquiry.

"Quite," he answered. "How are things with you?"

"Oh, just the same." She walked with him to the library, and he
poked at the open fire with a long-handled poker before turning around
to survey the room generally. It was five o'clock of a January
afternoon. Jennie had gone to one of the windows to lower the shade.
As she came back he looked at her critically. "You're not quite your
usual self, are you?" he asked, sensing something out of the common in
her attitude.

"Why, yes, I feel all right," she replied, but there was a peculiar
uneven motion to the movement of her lips--a rippling tremor
which was unmistakable to him.

"I think I know better than that," he said, still gazing at her
steadily. "What's the trouble? Anything happened?"

She turned away from him a moment to get her breath and collect her
senses. Then she faced him again. "There is something," she managed to
say. "I have to tell you something."

"I know you have," he agreed, half smiling, but with a feeling that
there was much of grave import back of this. "What is it?"

She was silent for a moment, biting her lips. She did not quite
know how to begin. Finally she broke the spell with: "There was a man
here yesterday--a Mr. O'Brien, of Cincinnati. Do you know
him?"

"Yes, I know him. What did he want?"

"He came to talk to me about you and your father's will."

She paused, for his face clouded immediately. "Why the devil should
he be talking to you about my father's will!" he exclaimed. "What did
he have to say?"

"Please don't get angry, Lester," said Jennie calmly, for she
realized that she must remain absolute mistress of herself if anything
were to be accomplished toward the resolution of her problem. "He
wanted to tell me what a sacrifice you are making," she went on. "He
wished to show me that there was only a little time left before you
would lose your inheritance. Don't you want to act pretty soon? Don't
you want to leave me."

"Damn him!" said Lester fiercely. "What the devil does he mean by
putting his nose in my private affairs? Can't they let me alone?" He
shook himself angrily. "Damn them!" he exclaimed again. "This is some
of Robert's work. Why should Knight, Keatley & O'Brien be meddling
in my affairs? This whole business is getting to be a nuisance!" He
was in a boiling rage in a moment, as was shown by his darkening skin
and sulphurous eyes.

Jennie trembled before his anger. She did not know what to say.

He came to himself sufficiently after a time to add:

"Well. Just what did he tell you?"

"He said that if you married me you would only get ten thousand a
year. That if you didn't and still lived with me you would get nothing
at all. If you would leave me, or I would leave you, you would get all
of a million and a half. Don't you think you had better leave me
now?"

She had not intended to propound this leading question so quickly,
but it came out as a natural climax to the situation. She realized
instantly that if he were really in love with her he would answer with
an emphatic "no." If he didn't care, he would hesitate, he would
delay, he would seek to put off the evil day of reckoning.

"I don't see that," he retorted irritably. "I don't see that
there's any need for either interference or hasty action. What I
object to is their coming here and mixing in my private affairs."

Jennie was cut to the quick by his indifference, his wrath instead
of affection. To her the main point at issue was her leaving him or
his leaving her. To him this recent interference was obviously the
chief matter for discussion and consideration. The meddling of others
before he was ready to act was the terrible thing. She had hoped, in
spite of what she had seen, that possibly, because of the long time
they had lived together and the things which (in a way) they had
endured together, he might have come to care for her deeply--that
she had stirred some emotion in him which would never brook real
separation, though some seeming separation might be necessary. He had
not married her, of course, but then there had been so many things
against them. Now, in this final hour, anyhow, he might have shown
that he cared deeply, even if he had deemed it necessary to let her
go. She felt for the time being as if, for all that she had lived with
him so long, she did not understand him, and yet, in spite of this
feeling, she knew also that she did. He cared, in his way. He could
not care for any one enthusiastically and demonstratively. He could
care enough to seize her and take her to himself as he had, but he
could not care enough to keep her if something more important
appeared. He was debating her fate now. She was in a quandary, hurt,
bleeding, but for once in her life, determined. Whether he wanted to
or not, she must not let him make this sacrifice. She must leave
him--if he would not leave her. It was not important enough that
she should stay. There might be but one answer. But might he not show
affection?

"Don't you think you had better act soon?" she continued, hoping
that some word of feeling would come from him. "There is only a little
time left, isn't there?"

Jennie nervously pushed a book to and fro on the table, her fear
that she would not be able to keep up appearances troubling her
greatly. It was hard for her to know what to do or say. Lester was so
terrible when he became angry. Still it ought not to be so hard for
him to go, now that he had Mrs. Gerald, if he only wished to do
so--and he ought to. His fortune was so much more important to
him than anything she could be.

"Don't worry about that," he replied stubbornly, his wrath at his
brother, and his family, and O'Brien still holding him. "There's time
enough. I don't know what I want to do yet. I like the effrontery of
these people! But I won't talk any more about it; isn't dinner nearly
ready?" He was so injured in his pride that he scarcely took the
trouble to be civil. He was forgetting all about her and what she was
feeling. He hated his brother Robert for this affront. He would have
enjoyed wringing the necks of Messrs. Knight, Keatley & O'Brien,
singly and collectively.

The question could not be dropped for good and all, and it came up
again at dinner, after Jennie had done her best to collect her
thoughts and quiet her nerves. They could not talk very freely because
of Vesta and Jeannette, but she managed to get in a word or two.

"I could take a little cottage somewhere," she suggested softly,
hoping to find him in a modified mood. "I would not want to stay here.
I would not know what to do with a big house like this alone."

"I wish you wouldn't discuss this business any longer, Jennie," he
persisted. "I'm in no mood for it. I don't know that I'm going to do
anything of the sort. I don't know what I'm going to do." He was so
sour and obstinate, because of O'Brien, that she finally gave it up.
Vesta was astonished to see her stepfather, usually so courteous, in
so grim a mood.

Jennie felt a curious sense that she might hold him if she would,
for he was doubting; but she knew also that she should not wish. It
was not fair to him. It was not fair to herself, or kind, or
decent.

"Oh yes, Lester, you must," she pleaded, at a later time. "I won't
talk about it any more, but you must. I won't let you do anything
else."

There were hours when it came up afterward--every day, in
fact--in their boudoir, in the library, in the dining-room, at
breakfast, but not always in words. Jennie was worried. She was
looking the worry she felt. She was sure that he should be made to
act. Since he was showing more kindly consideration for her, she was
all the more certain that he should act soon. Just how to go about it
she did not know, but she looked at him longingly, trying to help him
make up his mind. She would be happy, she assured herself--she
would be happy thinking that he was happy once she was away from him.
He was a good man, most delightful in everything, perhaps, save his
gift of love. He really did not love her--could not perhaps,
after all that had happened, even though she loved him most earnestly.
But his family had been most brutal in their opposition, and this had
affected his attitude. She could understand that, too. She could see
now how his big, strong brain might be working in a circle. He was too
decent to be absolutely brutal about this thing and leave her, too
really considerate to look sharply after his own interests as he
should, or hers--but he ought to.

"You must decide, Lester," she kept saying to him, from time to
time. "You must let me go. What difference does it make? I will be all
right. Maybe, when this thing is all over you might want to come back
to me. If you do, I will be there."

"I'm not ready to come to a decision," was his invariable reply. "I
don't know that I want to leave you. This money is important, of
course, but money isn't everything. I can live on ten thousand a year
if necessary. I've done it in the past."

"Oh, but you're so much more placed in the world now, Lester," she
argued. "You can't do it. Look how much it costs to run this house
alone. And a million and a half of dollars--why, I wouldn't let
you think of losing that. I'll go myself first."

"Where would you think of going if it came to that?" he asked
curiously.

"Oh, I'd find some place. Do you remember that little town of
Sandwood, this side of Kenosha? I have often thought it would be a
pleasant place to live."

"I don't like to think of this," he said finally in an outburst of
frankness. "It doesn't seem fair. The conditions have all been against
this union of ours. I suppose I should have married you in the first
place. I'm sorry now that I didn't."

Jennie choked in her throat, but said nothing.

"Anyhow, this won't be the last of it, if I can help it," he
concluded. He was thinking that the storm might blow over; once he had
the money, and then--but he hated compromises and
subterfuges.

It came by degrees to be understood that, toward the end of
February, she should look around at Sandwood and see what she could
find. She was to have ample means, he told her, everything that she
wanted. After a time he might come out and visit her occasionally. And
he was determined in his heart that he would make some people pay for
the trouble they had caused him. He decided to send for Mr. O'Brien
shortly and talk things over. He wanted for his personal satisfaction
to tell him what he thought of him.

At the same time, in the background of his mind, moved the shadowy
figure of Mrs. Gerald--charming, sophisticated, well placed in
every sense of the word. He did not want to give her the broad reality
of full thought, but she was always there. He thought and thought.
"Perhaps I'd better," he half concluded. When February came he was
ready to act.




CHAPTER LIV


The little town of Sandwood, "this side of Kenosha," as Jennie had
expressed it, was only a short distance from Chicago, an hour and
fifteen minutes by the local train. It had a population of some three
hundred families, dwelling in small cottages, which were scattered
over a pleasant area of lake-shore property. They were not rich
people. The houses were not worth more than from three to five
thousand dollars each, but, in most cases, they were harmoniously
constructed, and the surrounding trees, green for the entire year,
gave them a pleasing summery appearance. Jennie, at the time they had
passed by there--it was an outing taken behind a pair of fast
horses--had admired the look of a little white church steeple,
set down among green trees, and the gentle rocking of the boats upon
the summer water.

"I should like to live in a place like this some time," she had
said to Lester, and he had made the comment that it was a little too
peaceful for him. "I can imagine getting to the place where I might
like this, but not now. It's too withdrawn."

Jennie thought of that expression afterward. It came to her when
she thought that the world was trying. If she had to be alone ever and
could afford it she would like to live in a place like Sandwood. There
she would have a little garden, some chickens, perhaps, a tall pole
with a pretty bird-house on it, and flowers and trees and green grass
everywhere about. If she could have a little cottage in a place like
this which commanded a view of the lake she could sit of a summer
evening and sew. Vesta could play about or come home from school. She
might have a few friends, or not any. She was beginning to think that
she could do very well living alone if it were not for Vesta's social
needs. Books were pleasant things--she was finding that
out--books like Irving's Sketch Book, Lamb's Elia,
and Hawthorne's Twice Told Tales. Vesta was coming to be quite
a musician in her way, having a keen sense of the delicate and refined
in musical composition. She had a natural sense of harmony and a love
for those songs and instrumental compositions which reflect
sentimental and passionate moods; and she could sing and play quite
well. Her voice was, of course, quite untrained--she was only
fourteen--but it was pleasant to listen to. She was beginning to
show the combined traits of her mother and father--Jennie's
gentle, speculative turn of mind, combined with Brander's vivacity of
spirit and innate executive capacity. She could talk to her mother in
a sensible way about things, nature, books, dress, love, and from her
developing tendencies Jennie caught keen glimpses of the new worlds
which Vesta was to explore. The nature of modern school life, its
consideration of various divisions of knowledge, music, science, all
came to Jennie watching her daughter take up new themes. Vesta was
evidently going to be a woman of considerable ability--not
irritably aggressive, but self-constructive. She would be able to take
care of herself. All this pleased Jennie and gave her great hopes for
Vesta's future.

The cottage which was finally secured at Sandwood was only a story
and a half in height, but it was raised upon red brick piers between
which were set green lattices and about which ran a veranda. The house
was long and narrow, its full length--some five rooms in a
row--facing the lake. There was a dining-room with windows
opening even with the floor, a large library with built-in shelves for
books, and a parlor whose three large windows afforded air and
sunshine at all times.

The plot of ground in which this cottage stood was one hundred feet
square and ornamented with a few trees. The former owner had laid out
flower-beds, and arranged green hardwood tubs for the reception of
various hardy plants and vines. The house was painted white, with
green shutters and green shingles.

It had been Lester's idea, since this thing must be, that Jennie
might keep the house in Hyde Park just as it was, but she did not want
to do that. She could not think of living there alone. The place was
too full of memories. At first, she did not think she would take
anything much with her, but she finally saw that it was advisable to
do as Lester suggested--to fit out the new place with a selection
of silverware, hangings, and furniture from the Hyde Park house.

"You have no idea what you will or may want," he said. "Take
everything. I certainly don't want any of it."

A lease of the cottage was taken for two years, together with an
option for an additional five years, including the privilege of
purchase. So long as he was letting her go, Lester wanted to be
generous. He could not think of her as wanting for anything, and he
did not propose that she should. His one troublesome thought was, what
explanation was to be made to Vesta. He liked her very much and wanted
her "life kept free of complications.

"Why not send her off to a boarding-school until spring?" he
suggested once; but owing to the lateness of the season this was
abandoned as inadvisable. Later they agreed that business affairs made
it necessary for him to travel and for Jennie to move. Later Vesta
could be told that Jennie had left him for any reason she chose to
give. It was a trying situation, all the more bitter to Jennie because
she realized that in spite of the wisdom of it indifference to her was
involved. He really did not care enough, as much as he
cared.

The relationship of man and woman which we study so passionately in
the hope of finding heaven knows what key to the mystery of existence
holds no more difficult or trying situation than this of mutual
compatibility broken or disrupted by untoward conditions which in
themselves have so little to do with the real force and beauty of the
relationship itself. These days of final dissolution in which this
household, so charmingly arranged, the scene of so many pleasant
activities, was literally going to pieces was a period of great trial
to both Jennie and Lester. On her part it was one of intense
suffering, for she was of that stable nature that rejoices to fix
itself in a serviceable and harmonious relationship, and then stay so.
For her life was made up of those mystic chords of sympathy and memory
which bind up the transient elements of nature into a harmonious and
enduring scene. One of those chords--this home was her home,
united and made beautiful by her affection and consideration for each
person and every object. Now the time had come when it must cease.

If she had ever had anything before in her life which had been like
this it might have been easier to part with it now, though, as she had
proved, Jennie's affections were not based in any way upon material
considerations. Her love of life and of personality were free from the
taint of selfishness. She went about among these various rooms
selecting this rug, that set of furniture, this and that ornament,
wishing all the time with all her heart and soul that it need not be.
Just to think, in a little while Lester would not come any more of an
evening! She would not need to get up first of a morning and see that
coffee was made for her lord, that the table in the dining-room looked
just so. It had been a habit of hers to arrange a bouquet for the
table out of the richest blooming flowers of the conservatory, and she
had always felt in doing it that it was particularly for him. Now it
would not be necessary any more--not for him. When one is
accustomed to wait for the sound of a certain carriage-wheel of an
evening grating upon your carriage drive, when one is used to listen
at eleven, twelve, and one, waking naturally and joyfully to the echo
of a certain step on the stair, the separation, the ending of these
things, is keen with pain. These were the thoughts that were running
through Jennie's brain hour after hour and day after day.

Lester on his part was suffering in another fashion. His was not
the sorrow of lacerated affection, of discarded and despised love, but
of that painful sense of unfairness which comes to one who knows that
he is making a sacrifice of the virtues--kindness, loyalty,
affection--to policy. Policy was dictating a very splendid course
of action from one point of view. Free of Jennie, providing for her
admirably, he was free to go his way, taking to himself the mass of
affairs which come naturally with great wealth. He could not help
thinking of the thousand and one little things which Jennie had been
accustomed to do for him, the hundred and one comfortable and pleasant
and delightful things she meant to him. The virtues which she
possessed were quite dear to his mind. He had gone over them time and
again. Now he was compelled to go over them finally, to see that she
was suffering without making a sign. Her manner and attitude toward
him in these last days were quite the same as they had always
been--no more, no less. She was not indulging in private
hysterics, as another woman might have done; she was not pretending a
fortitude in suffering she did not feel, showing him one face while
wishing him to see another behind it. She was calm, gentle,
considerate--thoughtful of him--where he would go and what
he would do, without irritating him by her inquiries. He was struck
quite favorably by her ability to take a large situation largely, and
he admired her. There was something to this woman, let the world think
what it might. It was a shame that her life was passed under such a
troubled star. Still a great world was calling him. The sound of its
voice was in his ears. It had on occasion shown him its bared teeth.
Did he really dare to hesitate?

The last hour came, when having made excuses to this and that
neighbor, when having spread the information that they were going
abroad, when Lester had engaged rooms at the Auditorium, and the mass
of furniture which could not be used had gone to storage, that it was
necessary to say farewell to this Hyde Park domicile. Jennie had
visited Sandwood in company with Lester several times. He had
carefully examined the character of the place. He was satisfied that
it was nice but lonely. Spring was at hand, the flowers would be
something. She was going to keep a gardener and man of all work. Vesta
would be with her.

"Very well," he said, "only I want you to be comfortable."

In the mean time Lester had been arranging his personal affairs. He
had notified Messrs. Knight, Keatley & O'Brien through his own
attorney, Mr. Watson, that he would expect them to deliver his share
of his father's securities on a given date. He had made up his mind
that as long as he was compelled by circumstances to do this thing he
would do a number of other things equally ruthless. He would probably
marry Mrs. Gerald. He would sit as a director in the United Carriage
Company--with his share of the stock it would be impossible to
keep him out. If he had Mrs. Gerald's money he would become a
controlling factor in the United Traction of Cincinnati, in which his
brother was heavily interested, and in the Western Steel Works, of
which his brother was now the leading adviser. What a different figure
he would be now from that which he had been during the past few
years!

Jennie was depressed to the point of despair. She was tremendously
lonely. This home had meant so much to her. When she first came here
and neighbors had begun to drop in she had imagined herself on the
threshold of a great career, that some day, possibly, Lester would
marry her. Now, blow after blow had been delivered, and the home and
dream were a ruin. Gerhardt was gone. Jeannette, Harry Ward, and Mrs.
Frissell had been discharged, the furniture for a good part was in
storage, and for her, practically, Lester was no more. She realized
clearly that he would not come back. If he could do this thing now,
even considerately, he could do much more when he was free and away
later. Immersed in his great affairs, he would forget, of course. And
why not? She did not fit in. Had not everything--everything
illustrated that to her? Love was not enough in this world--that
was so plain. One needed education, wealth, training, the ability to
fight and scheme, She did not want to do that. She could not.

The day came when the house was finally closed and the old life was
at an end. Lester traveled with Jennie to Sandwood. He spent some
little while in the house trying to get her used to the idea of
change--it was not so bad. He intimated that he would come again
soon, but he went away, and all his words were as nothing against the
fact of the actual and spiritual separation. When Jennie saw him going
down the brick walk that afternoon, his solid, conservative figure
clad in a new tweed suit, his overcoat on his arm, self-reliance and
prosperity written all over him, she thought that she would die. She
had kissed Lester good-by and had wished him joy, prosperity, peace;
then she made an excuse to go to her bedroom. Vesta came after a time,
to seek her, but now her eyes were quite dry; everything had subsided
to a dull ache. The new life was actually begun for her--a life
without Lester, without Gerhardt, without any one save Vesta.

"What curious things have happened to me!" she thought, as she went
into the kitchen, for she had determined to do at least some of her
own work. She needed the distraction. She did not want to think. If it
were not for Vesta she would have sought some regular outside
employment. Anything to keep from brooding, for in that direction lay
madness.




CHAPTER LV


The social and business worlds of Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland,
and other cities saw, during the year or two which followed the
breaking of his relationship with Jennie, a curious rejuvenation in
the social and business spirit of Lester Kane. He had become rather
distant and indifferent to certain personages and affairs while he was
living with her, but now he suddenly appeared again, armed with
authority from a number of sources, looking into this and that matter
with the air of one who has the privilege of power, and showing
himself to be quite a personage from the point of view of finance and
commerce. He was older of course. It must be admitted that he was in
some respects a mentally altered Lester. Up to the time he had met
Jennie he was full of the assurance of the man who has never known
defeat. To have been reared in luxury as he had been, to have seen
only the pleasant side of society, which is so persistent and so
deluding where money is concerned, to have been in the run of big
affairs not because one has created them, but because one is a part of
them and because they are one's birthright, like the air one breathes,
could not help but create one of those illusions of solidarity which
is apt to befog the clearest brain. It is so hard for us to know what
we have not seen. It is so difficult for us to feel what we have not
experienced. Like this world of ours, which seems so solid and
persistent solely because we have no knowledge of the power which
creates it, Lester's world seemed solid and persistent and real enough
to him. It was only when the storms set in and the winds of adversity
blew and he found himself facing the armed forces of convention that
he realized he might be mistaken as to the value of his personality,
that his private desires and opinions were as nothing in the face of a
public conviction; that he was wrong. The race spirit, or social
avatar, the "Zeitgeist" as the Germans term it, manifested itself as
something having a system in charge, and the organization of society
began to show itself to him as something based on possibly a
spiritual, or, at least, superhuman counterpart. He could not fly in
the face of it. He could not deliberately ignore its mandates. The
people of his time believed that some particular form of social
arrangement was necessary, and unless he complied with that he could,
as he saw, readily become a social outcast. His own father and mother
had turned on him--his brother and sisters, society, his friends.
Dear heaven, what a to-do this action of his had created! Why, even
the fates seemed adverse. His real estate venture was one of the most
fortuitously unlucky things he had ever heard of. Why? Were the gods
battling on the side of a to him unimportant social arrangement?
Apparently. Anyhow, he had been compelled to quit, and here he was,
vigorous, determined, somewhat battered by the experience, but still
forceful and worth while.

And it was a part of the penalty that he had become measurably
soured by what had occurred. He was feeling that he had been compelled
to do the first ugly, brutal thing of his life. Jennie deserved better
of him. It was a shame to forsake her after all the devotion she had
manifested. Truly she had played a finer part than he. Worst of all,
his deed could not be excused on the grounds of necessity. He could
have lived on ten thousand a year; he could have done without the
million and more which was now his. He could have done without the
society, the pleasures of which had always been a lure. He could have,
but he had not, and he had complicated it all with the thought of
another woman.

Was she as good as Jennie? That was a question which always rose
before him. Was she as kindly? Wasn't she deliberately scheming under
his very eyes to win him away from the woman who was as good as his
wife? Was that admirable? Was it the thing a truly big woman would do?
Was she good enough for him after all? Ought he to marry her? Ought he
to marry any one seeing that he really owed a spiritual if not a legal
allegiance to Jennie? Was it worth while for any woman to marry him?
These things turned in his brain. They haunted him. He could not shut
out the fact that he was doing a cruel and unlovely thing.

Material error in the first place was now being complicated with
spiritual error. He was attempting to right the first by committing
the second. Could it be done to his own satisfaction? Would it
pay mentally and spiritually? Would it bring him peace of mind? He was
thinking, thinking, all the while he was readjusting his life to the
old (or perhaps better yet, new) conditions, and he was not feeling
any happier. As a matter of fact he was feeling worse--grim,
revengeful. If he married Letty he thought at times it would be to use
her fortune as a club to knock other enemies over the head, and he
hated to think he was marrying her for that. He took up his abode at
the Auditorium, visited Cincinnati in a distant and aggressive spirit,
sat in council with the board of directors, wishing that he was more
at peace with himself, more interested in life. But he did not change
his policy in regard to Jennie.

Of course Mrs. Gerald had been vitally interested in Lester's
rehabilitation. She waited tactfully some little time before sending
him any word; finally she ventured to write to him at the Hyde Park
address (as if she did not know where he was), asking, "Where are
you?" By this time Lester had become slightly accustomed to the change
in his life. He was saying to himself that he needed sympathetic
companionship, the companionship of a woman, of course. Social
invitations had begun to come to him now that he was alone and that
his financial connections were so obviously restored. He had made his
appearance, accompanied only by a Japanese valet, at several country
houses, the best sign that he was once more a single man. No reference
was made by any one to the past.

On receiving Mrs. Gerald's note he decided that he ought to go and
see her. He had treated her rather shabbily. For months preceding his
separation from Jennie he had not gone near her. Even now he waited
until time brought a 'phoned invitation to dinner. This he
accepted.

Mrs. Gerald was at her best as a hostess at her perfectly appointed
dinner-table. Alboni, the pianist, was there on this occasion,
together with Adam Rascavage, the sculptor, a visiting scientist from
England, Sir Nelson Keyes, and, curiously enough, Mr. and Mrs. Berry
Dodge, whom Lester had not met socially in several years. Mrs. Gerald
and Lester exchanged the joyful greetings of those who understand each
other thoroughly and are happy in each other's company. "Aren't you
ashamed of yourself, sir," she said to him when he made his
appearance, "to treat me so indifferently? You are going to be
punished for this."

"What's the damage?" he smiled. "I've been extremely rushed. I
suppose something like ninety stripes will serve me about right."

"Ninety stripes, indeed!" she retorted. "You're letting yourself
off easy. What is it they do to evil-doers in Siam?"

"Boil them in oil, I suppose."

"Well, anyhow, that's more like. I'm thinking of something
terrible."

"Be sure and tell me when you decide," he laughed, and passed on to
be presented to distinguished strangers by Mrs. De Lincum who aided
Mrs. Gerald in receiving.

The talk was stimulating. Lester was always at his ease
intellectually, and this mental atmosphere revived him. Presently he
turned to greet Berry Dodge, who was standing at his elbow.

Dodge was all cordiality. "Where are you now?" he asked. "We
haven't seen you in--oh, when? Mrs. Dodge is waiting to have a
word with you." Lester noticed the change in Dodge's attitude.

"Some time, that's sure," he replied easily. "I'm living at the
Auditorium."

"I was asking after you the other day. You know Jackson Du Bois? Of
course you do. We were thinking of running up into Canada for some
hunting. Why don't you join us?"

"I can't," replied Lester. "Too many things on hand just now.
Later, surely."

Dodge was anxious to continue. He had seen Lester's election as a
director of the C. H. & D. Obviously he was coming back into the
world. But dinner was announced and Lester sat at Mrs. Gerald's right
hand.

"Aren't you coming to pay me a dinner call some afternoon after
this?" asked Mrs. Gerald confidentially when the conversation was
brisk at the other end of the table.

"I am, indeed," he replied, "and shortly. Seriously, I've been
wanting to look you up. You understand though how things are now?"

"I do. I've heard a great deal. That's why I want you to come. We
need to talk together."

Ten days later he did call. He felt as if he must talk with her; he
was feeling bored and lonely; his long home life with Jennie had made
hotel life objectionable. He felt as though he must find a
sympathetic, intelligent ear, and where better than here? Letty was
all ears for his troubles. She would have pillowed his solid head upon
her breast in a moment if that had been possible.

"Well," he said, when the usual fencing preliminaries were over,
"what will you have me say in explanation?"

"Have you burned your bridges behind you?" she asked.

"I'm not so sure," he replied gravely. "And I can't say that I'm
feeling any too joyous about the matter as a whole."

"I thought as much," she replied. "I knew how it would be with you.
I can see you wading through this mentally, Lester. I have been
watching you, every step of the way, wishing you peace of mind. These
things are always so difficult, but don't you know I am still sure
it's for the best. It never was right the other way. It never could
be. You couldn't afford to sink back into a mere shell-fish life. You
are not organized temperamentally for that any more than I am. You may
regret what you are doing now, but you would have regretted the other
thing quite as much and more. You couldn't work your life out that
way--now, could you?"

"I don't know about that, Letty. Really, I don't. I've wanted to
come and see you for a long time, but I didn't think that I ought to.
The fight was outside--you know what I mean."

"Yes, indeed, I do," she said soothingly.

"It's still inside. I haven't gotten over it. I don't know whether
this financial business binds me sufficiently or not. I'll be frank
and tell you that I can't say I love her entirely; but I'm sorry, and
that's something."

"She's comfortably provided for, of course," she commented rather
than inquired.

"Everything she wants. Jennie is of a peculiar disposition. She
doesn't want much. She's retiring by nature and doesn't care for show.
I've taken a cottage for her at Sandwood, a little place north of here
on the lake; and there's plenty of money in trust, but, of course, she
knows she can live anywhere she pleases."

"I understand exactly how she feels, Lester. I know how you feel.
She is going to suffer very keenly for a while--we all do when we
have to give up the thing we love. But we can get over it, and we do.
At least, we can live. She will. It will go hard at first, but after a
while she will see how it is, and she won't feel any the worse toward
you."

"Jennie will never reproach me, I know that," he replied. "I'm the
one who will do the reproaching. I'll be abusing myself for some time.
The trouble is with my particular turn of mind. I can't tell, for the
life of me, how much of this disturbing feeling of mine is
habit--the condition that I'm accustomed to--and how much is
sympathy. I sometimes think I'm the the most pointless individual in
the world. I think too much."

"Poor Lester!" she said tenderly. "Well, I understand for one.
You're lonely living where you are, aren't you?"

"I am that," he replied.

"Why not come and spend a few days down at West Baden? I'm going
there."

"When?" he inquired.

"Next Tuesday."

"Let me see," he replied. "I'm not sure that I can." He consulted
his notebook. "I could come Thursday, for a few days."

"Why not do that? You need company. We can walk and talk things out
down there. Will you?"

"Yes, I will," he replied.

She came toward him, trailing a lavender lounging robe. "You're
such a solemn philosopher, sir," she observed comfortably, "working
through all the ramifications of things. Why do you? You were always
like that."

"I can't help it," he replied. "It's my nature to think."

"Well, one thing I know--" and she tweaked his ear gently.
"You're not going to make another mistake through sympathy if I can
help it," she said daringly. "You're going to stay disentangled long
enough to give yourself a chance to think out what you want to do. You
must. And I wish for one thing you'd take over the management of my
affairs. You could advise me so much better than my lawyer."

He arose and walked to the window, turning to look back at her
solemnly. "I know what you want," he said doggedly.

"And why shouldn't I?" she demanded, again approaching him. She
looked at him pleadingly, defiantly. "Yes, why shouldn't I?"

"You don't know what you're doing," he grumbled; but he kept on
looking at her; she stood there, attractive as a woman of her age
could be, wise, considerate, full of friendship and affection.

"Letty," he said. "You ought not to want to marry me. I'm not worth
it. Really I'm not. I'm too cynical. Too indifferent. It won't be
worth anything in the long run."

"It will be worth something to me," she insisted. "I know what you
are. Anyhow, I don't care. I want you!"

He took her hands, then her arms. Finally he drew her to him, and
put his arms about her waist. "Poor Letty!" he said; "I'm not worth
it. You'll be sorry."

"No, I'll not," she replied. "I know what I'm doing. I don't care
what you think you are worth." She laid her cheek on his shoulder. "I
want you."

"If you keep on I venture to say you'll have me," he returned. He
bent and kissed her.

"Oh," she exclaimed, and hid her hot face against his breast.

"This is bad business," he thought, even as he held her within the
circle of his arms. "It isn't what I ought to be doing."

Still he held her, and now when she offered her lips coaxingly he
kissed her again and again.




CHAPTER LVI


It is difficult to say whether Lester might not have returned to
Jennie after all but for certain influential factors. After a time,
with his control of his portion of the estate firmly settled in his
hands and the storm of original feeling forgotten, he was well aware
that diplomacy--if he ignored his natural tendency to fulfil even
implied obligations--could readily bring about an arrangement
whereby he and Jennie could be together. But he was haunted by the
sense of what might be called an important social opportunity in the
form of Mrs. Gerald. He was compelled to set over against his natural
tendency toward Jennie a consciousness of what he was ignoring in the
personality and fortunes of her rival, who was one of the most
significant and interesting figures on the social horizon. For think
as he would, these two women were now persistently opposed in his
consciousness. The one polished, sympathetic,
philosophic--schooled in all the niceties of polite society, and
with the means to gratify her every wish; the other natural,
sympathetic, emotional, with no schooling in the ways of polite
society, but with a feeling for the beauty of life and the lovely
things in human relationship which made her beyond any question an
exceptional woman. Mrs. Gerald saw it and admitted it. Her criticism
of Lester's relationship with Jennie was not that she was not worth
while, but that conditions made it impolitic. On the other hand, union
with her was an ideal climax for his social aspirations. This would
bring everything out right. He would be as happy with her as he would
be with Jennie--almost--and he would have the satisfaction
of knowing that this Western social and financial world held no more
significant figure than himself. It was not wise to delay either this
latter excellent solution of his material problems, and after thinking
it over long and seriously he finally concluded that he would not. He
had already done Jennie the irreparable wrong of leaving her. What
difference did it make if he did this also? She was possessed of
everything she could possibly want outside of himself. She had herself
deemed it advisable for him to leave. By such figments of the brain,
in the face of unsettled and disturbing conditions, he was becoming
used to the idea of a new alliance.

The thing which prevented an eventual resumption of relationship in
some form with Jennie was the constant presence of Mrs. Gerald.
Circumstances conspired to make her the logical solution of his mental
quandary at this time. Alone he could do nothing save to make visits
here and there, and he did not care to do that. He was too indifferent
mentally to gather about him as a bachelor that atmosphere which he
enjoyed and which a woman like Mrs. Gerald could so readily provide.
United with her it was simple enough. Their home then, wherever it
was, would be full of clever people. He would need to do little save
to appear and enjoy it. She understood quite as well as any one how he
liked to live. She enjoyed to meet the people he enjoyed meeting.
There were so many things they could do together nicely. He visited
West Baden at the same time she did, as she suggested. He gave himself
over to her in Chicago for dinners, parties, drives. Her house was
quite as much his own as hers--she made him feel so. She talked
to him about her affairs, showing him exactly how they stood and why
she wished him to intervene in this and that matter. She did not wish
him to be much alone. She did not want him to think or regret. She
came to represent to him comfort, forgetfulness, rest from care. With
the others he visited at her house occasionally, and it gradually
became rumored about that he would marry her. Because of the fact that
there had been so much discussion of his previous relationship, Letty
decided that if ever this occurred it should be a quiet affair. She
wanted a simple explanation in the papers of how it had come about,
and then afterward, when things were normal again and gossip had
subsided, she would enter on a dazzling social display for his
sake.

"Why not let us get married in April and go abroad for the summer?"
she asked once, after they had reached a silent understanding that
marriage would eventually follow. "Let's go to Japan. Then we can come
back in the fall, and take a house on the drive."

Lester had been away from Jennie so long now that the first severe
wave of self-reproach had passed. He was still doubtful, but he
preferred to stifle his misgivings. "Very well," he replied, almost
jokingly. "Only don't let there be any fuss about it."

"Do you really mean that, sweet?" she exclaimed, looking over at
him; they had been spending the evening together quietly reading and
chatting.

"I've thought about it a long while," he replied. "I don't see why
not."

She came over to him and sat on his knee, putting her arms upon his
shoulders.

"I can scarcely believe you said that," she said, looking at him
curiously.

"Shall I take it back?" he asked.

"No, no. It's agreed for April now. And we'll go to Japan. You
can't change your mind. There won't be any fuss. But my, what a
trousseau I will prepare!"

He smiled a little constrainedly as she tousled his head; there was
a missing note somewhere in this gamut of happiness; perhaps it was
because he was getting old.




CHAPTER LVII


In the meantime Jennie was going her way, settling herself in the
markedly different world in which henceforth she was to move. It
seemed a terrible thing at first--this life without Lester.
Despite her own strong individuality, her ways had become so involved
with his that there seemed to be no possibility of disentangling them.
Constantly she was with him in thought and action, just as though they
had never separated. Where was he now? What was he doing? What was he
saying? How was he looking? In the mornings when she woke it was with
the sense that he must be beside her. At night as if she could not go
to bed alone. He would come after a while surely--ah, no, of
course he would not come. Dear heaven, think of that! Never any more.
And she wanted him so.

Again there were so many little trying things to adjust, for a
change of this nature is too radical to be passed over lightly. The
explanation she had to make to Vesta was of all the most important.
This little girl, who was old enough now to see and think for herself,
was not without her surmises and misgivings. Vesta recalled that her
mother had been accused of not being married to her father when she
was born. She had seen the article about Jennie and Lester in the
Sunday paper at the time it had appeared--it had been shown to
her at school--but she had had sense enough to say nothing about
it, feeling somehow that Jennie would not like it. Lester's
disappearance was a complete surprise; but she had learned in the last
two or three years that her mother was very sensitive, and that she
could hurt her in unexpected ways. Jennie was finally compelled to
tell Vesta that Lester's fortune had been dependent on his leaving
her, solely because she was not of his station. Vesta listened soberly
and half suspected the truth. She felt terribly sorry for her mother,
and, because of Jennie's obvious distress, she was trebly gay and
courageous. She refused outright the suggestion of going to a
boarding-school and kept as close to her mother as she could. She
found interesting books to read with her, insisted that they go to see
plays together, played to her on the piano, and asked for her mother's
criticisms on her drawing and modeling. She found a few friends in the
excellent Sand wood school, and brought them home of an evening to add
lightness and gaiety to the cottage life. Jennie, through her growing
appreciation of Vesta's fine character, became more and more drawn
toward her. Lester was gone, but at least she had Vesta. That prop
would probably sustain her in the face of a waning existence.

There was also her history to account for to the residents of
Sandwood. In many cases where one is content to lead a secluded life
it is not necessary to say much of one's past, but as a rule something
must be said. People have the habit of inquiring--if they are no
more than butchers and bakers. By degrees one must account for this
and that fact, and it was so here. She could not say that her husband
was dead. Lester might come back. She had to say that she had left
him--to give the impression that it would be she, if any one, who
would permit him to return. This put her in an interesting and
sympathetic light in the neighborhood. It was the most sensible thing
to do. She then settled down to a quiet routine of existence, waiting
what denouement to her life she could not guess.

Sandwood life was not without its charms for a lover of nature, and
this, with the devotion of Vesta, offered some slight solace. There
was the beauty of the lake, which, with its passing boats, was a
never-ending source of joy, and there were many charming drives in the
surrounding country. Jennie had her own horse and carryall--one
of the horses of the pair they had used in Hyde Park. Other household
pets appeared in due course of time, including a collie, that Vesta
named Rats; she had brought him from Chicago as a puppy, and he had
grown to be a sterling watch-dog, sensible and affectionate. There was
also a cat, Jimmy Woods, so called after a boy Vesta knew, and to whom
she insisted the cat bore a marked resemblance. There was a singing
thrush, guarded carefully against a roving desire for bird-food on the
part of Jimmy Woods, and a jar of goldfish. So this little household
drifted along quietly and dreamily indeed, but always with the
undercurrent of feeling which ran so still because it was so deep.

There was no word from Lester for the first few weeks following his
departure; he was too busy following up the threads of his new
commercial connections and too considerate to wish to keep Jennie in a
state of mental turmoil over communications which, under the present
circumstances, could mean nothing. He preferred to let matters rest
for the time being; then a little later he would write her sanely and
calmly of how things were going. He did this after the silence of a
month, saying that he had been pretty well pressed by commercial
affairs, that he had been in and out of the city frequently (which was
the truth), and that he would probably be away from Chicago a large
part of the time in the future. He inquired after Vesta and the
condition of affairs generally at Sandwood. "I may get up there one of
these days," he suggested, but he really did not mean to come, and
Jennie knew that he did not.

Another month passed, and then there was a second letter from him,
not so long as the first one. Jennie had written him frankly and
fully, telling him just how things stood with her. She concealed
entirely her own feelings in the matter, saying that she liked the
life very much, and that she was glad to be at Sand wood. She
expressed the hope that now everything was coming out for the best for
him, and tried to show him that she was really glad matters had been
settled. "You mustn't think of me as being unhappy," she said in one
place, "for I'm not. I am sure it ought to be just as it is, and I
wouldn't be happy if it were any other way. Lay out your life so as to
give yourself the greatest happiness, Lester," she added. "You deserve
it. Whatever you do will be just right for me. I won't mind." She had
Mrs. Gerald in mind, and he suspected as much, but he felt that her
generosity must be tinged greatly with self-sacrifice and secret
unhappiness. It was the one thing which made him hesitate about taking
that final step.

The written word and the hidden thought--how they conflict!
After six months the correspondence was more or less perfunctory on
his part, and at eight it had ceased temporarily.

One morning, as she was glancing over the daily paper, she saw
among the society notes the following item:

The engagement of Mrs. Malcolm Gerald, of 4044 Drexel Boulevard,
to Lester Kane, second son of the late Archibald Kane, of Cincinnati,
was formally announced at a party given by the prospective bride on
Tuesday to a circle of her immediate friends. The wedding will take
place in April.

The paper fell from her hands. For a few minutes she sat perfectly
still, looking straight ahead of her. Could this thing be so? she
asked herself. Had it really come at last? She had known that it must
come, and yet--and yet she had always hoped that it would not.
Why had she hoped? Had not she herself sent him away? Had not she
herself suggested this very thing in a roundabout way? It had come
now. What must she do? Stay here as a pensioner? The idea was
objectionable to her. And yet he had set aside a goodly sum to be hers
absolutely. In the hands of a trust company in La Salle Street were
railway certificates aggregating seventy-five thousand dollars, which
yielded four thousand five hundred annually, the income being paid to
her direct. Could she refuse to receive this money? There was Vesta to
be considered.

Jennie felt hurt through and through by this denouement, and yet as
she sat there she realized that it was foolish to be angry. Life was
always doing this sort of a thing to her. It would go on doing so. She
was sure of it. If she went out in the world and earned her own living
what difference would it make to him? What difference would it make to
Mrs. Gerald? Here she was walled in this little place, leading an
obscure existence, and there was he out in the great world enjoying
life in its fullest and freest sense. It was too bad. But why cry?
Why?

Her eyes indeed were dry, but her very soul seemed to be torn in
pieces within her. She rose carefully, hid the newspaper at the bottom
of a trunk, and turned the key upon it.




CHAPTER LVIII


Now that his engagement to Mrs. Gerald was an accomplished, fact,
Lester found no particular difficulty in reconciling himself to the
new order of things; undoubtedly it was all for the best. He was sorry
for Jennie--very sorry. So was Mrs. Gerald; but there was a
practical unguent to her grief in the thought that it was best for
both Lester and the girl. He would be happier--was so now. And
Jennie would eventually realize that she had done a wise and kindly
thing; she would be glad in the consciousness that she had acted so
unselfishly. As for Mrs. Gerald, because of her indifference to the
late Malcolm Gerald, and because she was realizing the dreams of her
youth in getting Lester at last--even though a little
late--she was intensely happy. She could think of nothing finer
than this daily life with him--the places they would go, the
things they would see. Her first season in Chicago as Mrs. Lester Kane
the following winter was going to be something worth remembering. And
as for Japan--that was almost too good to be true.

Lester wrote to Jennie of his coming marriage to Mrs. Gerald. He
said that he had no explanation to make. It wouldn't be worth anything
if he did make it. He thought he ought to marry Mrs. Gerald. He
thought he ought to let her (Jennie) know. He hoped she was well. He
wanted her always to feel that he had her real interests at heart. He
would do anything in his power to make life as pleasant and agreeable
for her as possible. He hoped she would forgive him. And would she
remember him affectionately to Vesta? She ought to be sent to a
finishing school.

Jennie understood the situation perfectly. She knew that Lester had
been drawn to Mrs. Gerald from the time he met her at the Carlton in
London. She had been angling for him. Now she had him. It was all
right. She hoped he would be happy. She was glad to write and tell him
so, explaining that she had seen the announcement in the papers.
Lester read her letter thoughtfully; there was more between the lines
than the written words conveyed. Her fortitude was a charm to him even
in this hour. In spite of all he had done and what he was now going to
do, he realized that he still cared for Jennie in a way. She was a
noble and a charming woman. If everything else had been all right he
would not be going to marry Mrs. Gerald at all. And yet he did marry
her.

The ceremony was performed on April fifteenth, at the residence of
Mrs. Gerald, a Roman Catholic priest officiating. Lester was a poor
example of the faith he occasionally professed. He was an agnostic,
but because he had been reared in the church he felt that he might as
well be married in it. Some fifty guests, intimate friends, had been
invited. The ceremony went off with perfect smoothness. There were
jubilant congratulations and showers of rice and confetti. While the
guests were still eating and drinking Lester and Letty managed to
escape by a side entrance into a closed carriage, and were off.
Fifteen minutes later there was pursuit pell-mell on the part of the
guests to the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific depot; but by that time
the happy couple were in their private car, and the arrival of the
rice throwers made no difference. More champagne was opened; then the
starting of the train ended all excitement, and the newly wedded pair
were at last safely off.

"Well, now you have me," said Lester, cheerfully pulling Letty down
beside him into a seat, "what of it?"

"This of it," she exclaimed, and hugged him close, kissing him
fervently. In four days they were in San Francisco, and two days later
on board a fast steamship bound for the land of the Mikado.

In the meanwhile Jennie was left to brood. The original
announcement in the newspapers had said that he was to be married in
April, and she had kept close watch for additional information.
Finally she learned that the wedding would take place on April
fifteenth at the residence of the prospective bride, the hour being
high noon. In spite of her feeling of resignation, Jennie followed it
all hopelessly, like a child, hungry and forlorn, looking into a
lighted window at Christmas time.

On the day of the wedding she waited miserably for twelve o'clock
to strike; it seemed as though she were really present--and
looking on. She could see in her mind's eye the handsome residence,
the carriages, the guests, the feast, the merriment, the
ceremony--all. Telepathically and psychologically she received
impressions of the private car and of the joyous journey they were
going to take. The papers had stated that they would spend their
honeymoon in Japan. Their honeymoon! Her Lester! And Mrs. Gerald was
so attractive. She could see her now--the new Mrs. Kane--the
only Mrs. Kane that ever was, lying in his arms. He had held
her so once. He had loved her. Yes, he had! There was a solid lump in
her throat as she thought of this. Oh, dear! She sighed to herself,
and clasped her hands forcefully; but it did no good. She was just as
miserable as before.

When the day was over she was actually relieved; anyway, the deed
was done and nothing could change it. Vesta was sympathetically aware
of what was happening, but kept silent. She too had seen the report in
the newspaper. When the first and second day after had passed Jennie
was much calmer mentally, for now she was face to face with the
inevitable. But it was weeks before the sharp pain dulled to the old
familiar ache. Then there were months before they would be back again,
though, of course, that made no difference now. Only Japan seemed so
far off, and somehow she had liked the thought that Lester was near
her--somewhere in the city.

The spring and summer passed, and now it was early in October. One
chilly day Vesta came home from school complaining of a headache. When
Jennie had given her hot milk--a favorite remedy of her
mother's--and had advised a cold towel for the back of her head,
Vesta went to her room and lay down. The following morning she had a
slight fever. This lingered while the local physician, Dr. Emory,
treated her tentatively, suspecting that it might be typhoid, of which
there were several cases in the village. This doctor told Jennie that
Vesta was probably strong enough constitutionally to shake it off, but
it might be that she would have a severe siege. Mistrusting her own
skill in so delicate a situation, Jennie sent to Chicago for a trained
nurse, and then began a period of watchfulness which was a combination
of fear, longing, hope, and courage.

Now there could be no doubt; the disease was typhoid. Jennie
hesitated about communicating with Lester, who was supposed to be in
New York; the papers had said that he intended to spend the winter
there. But when the doctor, after watching the case for a week,
pronounced it severe, she thought she ought to write anyhow, for no
one could tell what would happen. Lester had been so fond of Vesta. He
would probably want to know.

The letter sent to him did not reach him, for at the time it
arrived he was on his way to the West Indies. Jennie was compelled to
watch alone by Vesta's sick-bed, for although sympathetic neighbors,
realizing the pathos of the situation were attentive, they could not
supply the spiritual consolation which only those who truly love us
can give. There was a period when Vesta appeared to be rallying, and
both the physician and the nurse were hopeful; but afterward she
became weaker. It was said by Dr. Emory that her heart and kidneys had
become affected.

There came a time when the fact had to be faced that death was
imminent. The doctor's face was grave, the nurse was non-committal in
her opinion. Jennie hovered about, praying the only prayer that is
prayer--the fervent desire of her heart concentrated on the one
issue--that Vesta should get well. The child had come so close to
her during the last few years! She understood her mother. She was
beginning to realize clearly what her life had been. And Jennie,
through her, had grown to a broad understanding of responsibility. She
knew now what it meant to be a good mother and to have children. If
Lester had not objected to it, and she had been truly married, she
would have been glad to have others. Again, she had always felt that
she owed Vesta so much--at least a long and happy life to make up
to her for the ignominy of her birth and rearing. Jennie had been so
happy during the past few years to see Vesta growing into beautiful,
graceful, intelligent womanhood. And now she was dying. Dr. Emory
finally sent to Chicago for a physician friend of his, who came to
consider the case with him. He was an old man, grave, sympathetic,
understanding. He shook his head. "The treatment has been correct," he
said. "Her system does not appear to be strong enough to endure the
strain. Some physiques are more susceptible to this malady than
others." It was agreed that if within three days a change for the
better did not come the end was close at hand.

No one can conceive the strain to which Jennie's spirit was
subjected by this intelligence, for it was deemed best that she should
know. She hovered about white-faced--feeling intensely, but
scarcely thinking. She seemed to vibrate consciously with Vesta's
altering states. If there was the least improvement she felt it
physically. If there was a decline her barometric temperament
registered the fact.

There was a Mrs. Davis, a fine, motherly soul of fifty, stout and
sympathetic, who lived four doors from Jennie, and who understood
quite well how she was feeling. She had co-operated with the nurse and
doctor from the start to keep Jennie's mental state as nearly normal
as possible.

"Now, you just go to your room and lie down, Mrs. Kane," she would
say to Jennie when she found her watching helplessly at the bedside or
wandering to and fro, wondering what to do. "I'll take charge of
everything. I'll do just what you would do. Lord bless you, don't you
think I know? I've been the mother of seven and lost three. Don't you
think I understand?" Jennie put her head on her big, warm shoulder one
day and cried. Mrs. Davis cried with her. "I understand," she said.
"There, there, you poor dear. Now you come with me." And she led her
to her sleeping-room.

Jennie could not be away long. She came back after a few minutes
unrested and unrefreshed. Finally one midnight, when the nurse had
persuaded her that all would be well until morning anyhow, there came
a hurried stirring in the sick-room. Jennie was lying down for a few
minutes on her bed in the adjoining room. She heard it and arose. Mrs.
Davis had come in, and she and the nurse were conferring as to Vesta's
condition--standing close beside her.

Jennie understood. She came up and looked at her daughter keenly.
Vesta's pale, waxen face told the story. She was breathing faintly,
her eyes closed. "She's very weak," whispered the nurse. Mrs. Davis
took Jennie's hand.

The moments passed, and after a time the clock in the hall struck
one. Miss Murfree, the nurse, moved to the medicine-table several
times, wetting a soft piece of cotton cloth with alcohol and bathing
Vesta's lips. At the striking of the half-hour there was a stir of the
weak body--a profound sigh. Jennie bent forward eagerly, but Mrs.
Davis drew her back. The nurse came and motioned them away.
Respiration had ceased.

Mrs. Davis seized Jennie firmly. "There, there, you poor dear," she
whispered when she began to shake. "It can't be helped. Don't
cry."

Jennie sank on her knees beside the bed and caressed Vesta's still
warm hand. "Oh no, Vesta," she pleaded. "Not you! Not you!"

"There, dear, come now," soothed the voice of Mrs. Davis. "Can't
you leave it all in God's hands? Can't you believe that everything is
for the best?"

Jennie felt as if the earth had fallen. All ties were broken. There
was no light anywhere in the immense darkness of her existence.




CHAPTER LIX


This added blow from inconsiderate fortune was quite enough to
throw Jennie back into that state of hyper-melancholia from which she
had been drawn with difficulty during the few years of comfort and
affection which she had enjoyed with Lester in Hyde Park. It was
really weeks before she could realize that Vesta was gone. The
emaciated figure which she saw for a day or two after the end did not
seem like Vesta. Where was the joy and lightness, the quickness of
motion, the subtle radiance of health? All gone. Only this pale,
lily-hued shell--and silence. Jennie had no tears to shed; only a
deep, insistent pain to feel. If only some counselor of eternal wisdom
could have whispered to her that obvious and convincing
truth--there are no dead.

Miss Murfree, Dr. Emory, Mrs. Davis, and some others among the
neighbors were most sympathetic and considerate. Mrs. Davis sent a
telegram to Lester saying that Vesta was dead, but, being absent,
there was no response. The house was looked after with scrupulous care
by others, for Jennie was incapable of attending to it herself. She
walked about looking at things which Vesta had owned or
liked--things which Lester or she had given her--sighing
over the fact that Vesta would not need or use them any more. She gave
instructions that the body should be taken to Chicago and buried in
the Cemetery of the Redeemer, for Lester, at the time of Gerhardt's
death, had purchased a small plot of ground there. She also expressed
her wish that the minister of the little Lutheran church in Cottage
Grove Avenue, where Gerhardt had attended, should be requested to say
a few words at the grave. There were the usual preliminary services at
the house. The local Methodist minister read a portion of the first
epistle of Paul to the Thessalonians, and a body of Vesta's classmates
sang "Nearer My God to Thee." There were flowers, a white coffin, a
world of sympathetic expressions, and then Vesta was taken away. The
coffin was properly incased for transportation, put on the train, and
finally delivered at the Lutheran cemetery in Chicago.

Jennie moved as one in a dream. She was dazed, almost to the point
of insensibility. Five of her neighborhood friends, at the
solicitation of Mrs. Davis, were kind enough to accompany her. At the
grave-side when the body was finally lowered she looked at it, one
might have thought indifferently, for she was numb from suffering. She
returned to Sandwood after it was all over, saying that she would not
stay long. She wanted to come back to Chicago, where she could be near
Vesta and Gerhardt.

After the funeral Jennie tried to think of her future. She fixed
her mind on the need of doing something, even though she did not need
to. She thought that she might like to try nursing, and could start at
once to obtain the training which was required. She also thought of
William. He was unmarried, and perhaps he might be willing to come and
live with her. Only she did not know where he was, and Bass was also
in ignorance of his whereabouts. She finally concluded that she would
try to get work in a store. Her disposition was against idleness. She
could not live alone here, and she could not have her neighbors
sympathetically worrying over what was to become of her. Miserable as
she was, she would be less miserable stopping in a hotel in Chicago,
and looking for something to do, or living in a cottage somewhere near
the Cemetery of the Redeemer. It also occurred to her that she might
adopt a homeless child. There were a number of orphan asylums in the
city.

Some three weeks after Vesta's death Lester returned to Chicago
with his wife, and discovered the first letter, the telegram, and an
additional note telling him that Vesta was dead. He was truly grieved,
for his affection for the girl had been real. He was very sorry for
Jennie, and he told his wife that he would have to go out and see her.
He was wondering what she would do. She could not live alone. Perhaps
he could suggest something which would help her. He took the train to
Sandwood, but Jennie had gone to the Hotel Tremont in Chicago. He went
there, but Jennie had gone to her daughter's grave; later he called
again and found her in. When the boy presented his card she suffered
an upwelling of feeling--a wave that was more intense than that
with which she had received him in the olden days, for now her need of
him was greater.

Lester, in spite of the glamor of his new affection and the
restoration of his wealth, power, and dignities, had had time to think
deeply of what he had done. His original feeling of doubt and
dissatisfaction with himself had never wholly quieted. It did not ease
him any to know that he had left Jennie comfortably fixed, for it was
always so plain to him that money was not the point at issue with her.
Affection was what she craved. Without it she was like a rudderless
boat on an endless sea, and he knew it. She needed him, and he was
ashamed to think that his charity had not outweighed his sense of
self-preservation and his desire for material advantage. To-day as the
elevator carried him up to her room he was really sorry, though he
knew now that no act of his could make things right. He had been to
blame from the very beginning, first for taking her, then for failing
to stick by a bad bargain. Well, it could not be helped now. The best
thing he could do was to be fair, to counsel with her, to give her the
best of his sympathy and advice.

"Hello, Jennie," he said familiarly as she opened the door to him
in her hotel room, his glance taking in the ravages which death and
suffering had wrought. She was thinner, her face quite drawn and
colorless, her eyes larger by contrast. "I'm awfully sorry about
Vesta," he said a little awkwardly. "I never dreamed anything like
that could happen."

It was the first word of comfort which had meant anything to her
since Vesta died--since Lester had left her, in fact. It touched
her that he had come to sympathize; for the moment she could not
speak. Tears welled over her eyelids and down upon her cheeks.

"Don't cry, Jennie," he said, putting his arm around her and
holding her head to his shoulder. "I'm sorry. I've been sorry for a
good many things that can't be helped now. I'm intensely sorry for
this. Where did you bury her?"

"Beside papa," she said, sobbing.

"Too bad," he murmured, and held her in silence. She finally gained
control of herself sufficiently to step away from him; then wiping her
eyes with her handkerchief, she asked him to sit down.

"I'm so sorry," he went on, "that this should have happened while I
was away. I would have been with you if I had been here. I suppose you
won't want to live out at Sand wood now?"

"I can't, Lester," she replied. "I couldn't stand it."

"Where are you thinking of going?"

"Oh, I don't know yet. I didn't want to be a bother to those people
out there. I thought I'd get a little house somewhere and adopt a baby
maybe, or get something to do. I don't like to be alone."

"That isn't a bad idea," he said, "that of adopting a baby. It
would be a lot of company for you. You know how to go about getting
one?"

"You just ask at one of these asylums, don't you?"

"I think there's something more than that," he replied
thoughtfully. "There are some formalities--I don't know what they
are. They try to keep control of the child in some way. You had better
consult with Watson and get him to help you. Pick out your baby, and
then let him do the rest. I'll speak to him about it."

Lester saw that she needed companionship badly. "Where is your
brother George?" he asked.

"He's in Rochester, but he couldn't come. Bass said he was
married," she added.

"There isn't any other member of the family you could persuade to
come and live with you?"

"I might get William, but I don't know where he is."

"Why not try that new section west of Jackson Park," he suggested,
"if you want a house here in Chicago? I see some nice cottages out
that way. You needn't buy. Just rent until you see how well you're
satisfied."

Jennie thought this good advice because it came from Lester. It was
good of him to take this much interest in her affairs. She wasn't
entirely separated from him after all. He cared a little. She asked
him how his wife was, whether he had had a pleasant trip, whether he
was going to stay in Chicago. All the while he was thinking that he
had treated her badly. He went to the window and looked down into
Dearborn Street, the world of traffic below holding his attention. The
great mass of trucks and vehicles, the counter streams of hurrying
pedestrians, seemed like a puzzle. So shadows march in a dream. It was
growing dusk, and lights were springing up here and there.

"I want to tell you something, Jennie," said Lester, finally
rousing himself from his fit of abstraction. "I may seem peculiar to
you, after all that has happened, but I still care for you--in my
way. I've thought of you right along since I left. I thought it good
business to leave you--the way things were. I thought I liked
Letty well enough to marry her. From one point of view it still seems
best, but I'm not so much happier. I was just as happy with you as I
ever will be. It isn't myself that's important in this transaction
apparently; the individual doesn't count much in the situation. I
don't know whether you see what I'm driving at, but all of us are more
or less pawns. We're moved about like chessmen by circumstances over
which we have no control."

"I understand, Lester," she answered. "I'm not complaining. I know
it's for the best."

"After all, life is more or less of a farce," he went on a little
bitterly. "It's a silly show. The best we can do is to hold our
personality intact. It doesn't appear that integrity has much to do
with it."

Jennie did not quite grasp what he was talking about, but she knew
it meant that he was not entirely satisfied with himself and was sorry
for her.

"Don't worry over me, Lester," she consoled. "I'm all right; I'll
get along. It did seem terrible to me for a while--getting used
to being alone. I'll be all right now. I'll get along."

"I want you to feel that my attitude hasn't changed," he continued
eagerly. "I'm interested in what concerns you. Mrs.--Letty
understands that. She knows just how I feel. When you get settled I'll
come in and see how you're fixed. I'll come around here again in a few
days. You understand how I feel, don't you?"

"Yes, I do," she said.

He took her hand, turning it sympathetically in his own. "Don't
worry," he said. "I don't want you to do that. I'll do the best I can.
You're still Jennie to me, if you don't mind. I'm pretty bad, but I'm
not all bad."

"It's all right, Lester. I wanted you to do as you did. It's for
the best. You probably are happy since--"

"Now, Jennie," he interrupted; then he pressed affectionately her
hand, her arm, her shoulder. "Want to kiss me for old times' sake?" he
smiled.

She put her hands over his shoulders, looked long into his eyes,
then kissed him. When their lips met she trembled. Lester also felt
unsteady. Jennie saw his agitation, and tried hard to speak.

"You'd better go now," she said firmly. "It's getting dark."

He went away, and yet he knew that he wanted above all things to
remain; she was still the one woman in the world for him. And Jennie
felt comforted even though the separation still existed in all its
finality. She did not endeavor to explain or adjust the moral and
ethical entanglements of the situation. She was not, like so many,
endeavoring to put the ocean into a tea-cup, or to tie up the shifting
universe in a mess of strings called law. Lester still cared for her a
little. He cared for Letty too. That was all right. She had hoped once
that he might want her only. Since he did not, was his affection worth
nothing? She could not think, she could not feel that. And neither
could he.




CHAPTER LX


The drift of events for a period of five years carried Lester and
Jennie still farther apart; they settled naturally into their
respective spheres, without the renewal of the old time relationship
which their several meetings at the Tremont at first seemed to
foreshadow. Lester was in the thick of social and commercial affairs;
he walked in paths to which Jennie's retiring soul had never aspired.
Jennie's own existence was quiet and uneventful. There was a simple
cottage in a very respectable but not showy neighborhood near Jackson
Park, on the South Side, where she lived in retirement with a little
foster-child--a chestnut-haired girl taken from the Western Home
for the Friendless--as her sole companion. Here she was known as
Mrs. J. G. Stover, for she had deemed it best to abandon the name of
Kane. Mr. and Mrs. Lester Kane when resident in Chicago were the
occupants of a handsome mansion on the Lake Shore Drive, where
parties, balls, receptions, dinners were given in rapid and at times
almost pyrotechnic succession.

Lester, however, had become in his way a lover of a peaceful and
well-entertained existence. He had cut from his list of acquaintances
and associates a number of people who had been a little doubtful or
overfamiliar or indifferent or talkative during a certain period which
to him was a memory merely. He was a director, and in several cases
the chairman of a board of directors, in nine of the most important
financial and commercial organizations of the West--The United
Traction Company of Cincinnati, The Western Crucible Company, The
United Carriage Company, The Second National Bank of Chicago, the
First National Bank of Cincinnati, and several others of equal
importance. He was never a personal factor in the affairs of The
United Carriage Company, preferring to be represented by
counsel--Mr. Dwight L. Watson, but he took a keen interest in its
affairs. He had not seen his brother Robert to speak to him in seven
years. He had not seen Imogene, who lived in Chicago, in three.
Louise, Amy, their husbands, and some of their closest acquaintances
were practically strangers. The firm of Knight, Keatley & O'Brien
had nothing whatever to do with his affairs.

The truth was that Lester, in addition to becoming a little
phlegmatic, was becoming decidedly critical in his outlook on life. He
could not make out what it was all about. In distant ages a queer
thing had come to pass. There had started on its way in the form of
evolution a minute cellular organism which had apparently reproduced
itself by division, had early learned to combine itself with others,
to organize itself into bodies, strange forms of fish, animals, and
birds, and had finally learned to organize itself into man. Man, on
his part, composed as he was of self-organizing cells, was pushing
himself forward into comfort and different aspects of existence by
means of union and organization with other men. Why? Heaven only knew.
Here he was endowed with a peculiar brain and a certain amount of
talent, and he had inherited a certain amount of wealth which he now
scarcely believed he deserved, only luck had favored him. But he could
not see that any one else might be said to deserve this wealth any
more than himself, seeing that his use of it was as conservative and
constructive and practical as the next one's. He might have been born
poor, in which case he would have been as well satisfied as the next
one--not more so. Why should he complain, why worry, why
speculate?--the world was going steadily forward of its own
volition, whether he would or no. Truly it was. And was there any need
for him to disturb himself about it? There was not. He fancied at
times that it might as well never have been started at all. "The one
divine, far-off event" of the poet did not appeal to him as having any
basis in fact. Mrs. Lester Kane was of very much the same opinion.

Jennie, living on the South Side with her adopted child, Rose
Perpetua, was of no fixed conclusion as to the meaning of life. She
had not the incisive reasoning capacity of either Mr. or Mrs. Lester
Kane. She had seen a great deal, suffered a great deal, and had read
some in a desultory way. Her mind had never grasped the nature and
character of specialized knowledge. History, physics, chemistry,
botany, geology, and sociology were not fixed departments in her brain
as they were in Lester's and Letty's. Instead there was the feeling
that the world moved in some strange, unstable way. Apparently no one
knew clearly what it was all about. People were born and died. Some
believed that the world had been made six thousand years before; some
that it was millions of years old. Was it all blind chance, or was
there some guiding intelligence--a God? Almost in spite of
herself she felt there must be something--a higher power which
produced all the beautiful things--the flowers, the stars, the
trees, the grass. Nature was so beautiful! If at times life seemed
cruel, yet this beauty still persisted. The thought comforted her; she
fed upon it in her hours of secret loneliness.

It has been said that Jennie was naturally of an industrious turn.
She liked to be employed, though she thought constantly as she worked.
She was of matronly proportions in these days--not disagreeably
large, but full bodied, shapely, and smooth-faced in spite of her
cares. Her eyes were gray and appealing. Her hair was still of a rich
brown, but there were traces of gray in it. Her neighbors spoke of her
as sweet-tempered, kindly, and hospitable. They knew nothing of her
history, except that she had formerly resided in Sandwood, and before
that in Cleveland. She was very reticent as to her past.

Jennie had fancied, because of her natural aptitude for taking care
of sick people, that she might get to be a trained nurse. But she was
obliged to abandon that idea, for she found that only young people
were wanted. She also thought that some charitable organization might
employ her, but she did not understand the new theory of charity which
was then coming into general acceptance and practice--namely,
only to help others to help themselves. She believed in giving, and
was not inclined to look too closely into the credentials of those who
asked for help; consequently her timid inquiry at one relief agency
after another met with indifference, if not unqualified rebuke. She
finally decided to adopt another child for Rose Perpetua's sake; she
succeeded in securing a boy, four years old, who was known as
Henry--Henry Stover. Her support was assured, for her income was
paid to her through a trust company. She had no desire for speculation
or for the devious ways of trade. The care of flowers, the nature of
children, the ordering of a home were more in her province.

One of the interesting things in connection with this separation
once it had been firmly established related to Robert and Lester, for
these two since the reading of the will a number of years before had
never met. Robert had thought of his brother often. He had followed
his success since he had left Jennie with interest. He read of his
marriage to Mrs. Gerald with pleasure; he had always considered her an
ideal companion for his brother. He knew by many signs and tokens that
his brother, since the unfortunate termination of their father's
attitude and his own peculiar movements to gain control of the Kane
Company, did not like him. Still they had never been so far apart
mentally--certainly not in commercial judgment. Lester was
prosperous now. He could afford to be generous. He could afford to
make up. And after all, he had done his best to aid his brother to
come to his senses--and with the best intentions. There were
mutual interests they could share financially if they were friends. He
wondered from time to time if Lester would not be friendly with
him.

Time passed, and then once, when he was in Chicago, he made the
friends with whom he was driving purposely turn into the North Shore
in order to see the splendid mansion which the Kanes occupied. He knew
its location from hearsay and description.

When he saw it a touch of the old Kane home atmosphere came back to
him. Lester in revising the property after purchase had had a
conservatory built on one side not unlike the one at home in
Cincinnati. That same night he sat down and wrote Lester asking if he
would not like to dine with him at the Union Club. He was only in town
for a day or two, and he would like to see him again. There was some
feeling he knew, but there was a proposition he would like to talk to
him about. Would he come, say, on Thursday?

On the receipt of this letter Lester frowned and fell into a brown
study. He had never really been healed of the wound that his father
had given him. He had never been comfortable in his mind since Robert
had deserted him so summarily. He realized now that the stakes his
brother had been playing for were big. But, after all, he had been his
brother, and if he had been in Robert's place at the time, he would
not have done as he had done; at least he hoped not. Now Robert wanted
to see him.

He thought once of not answering at all. Then he thought he would
write and say no. But a curious desire to see Robert again, to hear
what he had to say, to listen to the proposition he had to offer, came
over him; he decided to write yes. It could do no harm. He knew it
could do no good. They might agree to let by-gones be by-gones, but
the damage had been done. Could a broken bowl be mended and called
whole? It might be called whole, but what of it? Was it not
broken and mended? He wrote and intimated that he would come.

On the Thursday in question Robert called up from the Auditorium to
remind him of the engagement. Lester listened curiously to the sound
of his voice. "All right," he said, "I'll be with you." At noon he
went down-town, and there, within the exclusive precincts of the Union
Club, the two brothers met and looked at each other again. Robert was
thinner than when Lester had seen him last, and a little grayer. His
eyes were bright and steely, but there were crow's-feet on either
side. His manner was quick, keen, dynamic. Lester was noticeably of
another type--solid, brusque, and indifferent. Men spoke of
Lester these days as a little hard. Robert's keen blue eyes did not
disturb him in the least--did not affect him in any way. He saw
his brother just as he was, for he had the larger philosophic and
interpretative insight; but Robert could not place Lester exactly. He
could not fathom just what had happened to him in these years. Lester
was stouter, not gray, for some reason, but sandy and ruddy, looking
like a man who was fairly well satisfied to take life as he found it.
Lester looked at his brother with a keen, steady eye. The latter
shifted a little, for he was restless. He could see that there was no
loss of that mental force and courage which had always been
predominant characteristics in Lester's make-up.

"I thought I'd like to see you again, Lester," Robert remarked,
after they had clasped hands in the customary grip. "It's been a long
time now--nearly eight years, hasn't it?"

"About that," replied Lester. "How are things with you?"

"Oh, about the same. You've been fairly well, I see."

"Never sick," said Lester. "A little cold now and then. I don't
often go to bed with anything. How's your wife?"

"Oh, Margaret's fine."

"And the children?"

"We don't see much of Ralph and Berenice since they married, but
the others are around more or less. I suppose your wife is all right,"
he said hesitatingly. It was difficult ground for Robert.

Lester eyed him without a change of expression.

"Yes," he replied. "She enjoys pretty fair health. She's quite well
at present."

They drifted mentally for a few moments, while Lester inquired
after the business, and Amy, Louise, and Imogene. He admitted frankly
that he neither saw nor heard from them nowadays. Robert told him what
he could.

"The thing that I was thinking of in connection with you, Lester,"
said Robert finally, "is this matter of the Western Crucible Steel
Company. You haven't been sitting there as a director in person I
notice, but your attorney, Watson, has been acting for you. Clever
man, that. The management isn't right--we all know that. We need
a practical steel man at the head of it, if the thing is ever going to
pay properly. I have voted my stock with yours right along because the
propositions made by Watson have been right. He agrees with me that
things ought to be changed. Now I have a chance to buy seventy shares
held by Rossiter's widow. That with yours and mine would give us
control of the company. I would like to have you take them, though it
doesn't make a bit of difference so long as it's in the family. You
can put any one you please in for president, and we'll make the thing
come out right."

Lester smiled. It was a pleasant proposition. Watson had told him
that Robert's interests were co-operating with him. Lester had long
suspected that Robert would like to make up. This was the olive
branch--the control of a property worth in the neighborhood of a
million and a half.

"That's very nice of you," said Lester solemnly. "It's a rather
liberal thing to do. What makes you want to do it now?"

"Well, to tell you the honest truth, Lester," replied Robert, "I
never did feel right about that will business. I never did feel right
about that secretary-treasurership and some other things that have
happened. I don't want to rake up the past--you smile at
that--but I can't help telling you how I feel. I've been pretty
ambitious in the past. I was pretty ambitious just about the time that
father died to get this United Carriage scheme under way, and I was
afraid you might not like it. I have thought since that I ought not to
have done it, but I did. I suppose you're not anxious to hear any more
about that old affair. This other thing though--"

"Might be handed out as a sort of compensation," put in Lester
quietly.

"Not exactly that, Lester--though it may have something of
that in it. I know these things don't matter very much to you now. I
know that the time to do things was years ago--not now. Still I
thought sincerely that you might be interested in this proposition. It
might lead to other things. Frankly, I thought it might patch up
matters between us. We're brothers after all."

"Yes," said Lester, "we're brothers."

He was thinking as he said this of the irony of the situation. How
much had this sense of brotherhood been worth in the past? Robert had
practically forced him into his present relationship, and while Jennie
had been really the only one to suffer, he could not help feeling
angry. It was true that Robert had not cut him out of his one-fourth
of his father's estate, but certainly he had not helped him to get it,
and now Robert was thinking that this offer of his might mend things.
It hurt him--Lester--a little. It irritated him. Life was
strange.

"I can't see it, Robert," he said finally and determinedly. "I can
appreciate the motive that prompts you to make this offer. But I can't
see the wisdom of my taking it. Your opportunity is your opportunity.
I don't want it. We can make all the changes you suggest if you take
the stock. I'm rich enough anyhow. Bygones are bygones. I'm perfectly
willing to talk with you from time to time. That's all you want. This
other thing is simply a sop with which to plaster an old wound. You
want my friendship and so far as I'm concerned you have that. I don't
hold any grudge against you. I won't."

Robert looked at him fixedly. He half smiled. He admired Lester in
spite of all that he had done to him--in spite of all that Lester
was doing to him now.

"I don't know but what you're right, Lester," he admitted finally.
"I didn't make this offer in any petty spirit though. I wanted to
patch up this matter of feeling between us. I won't say anything more
about it. You're not coming down to Cincinnati soon, are you?"

"I don't expect to," replied Lester.

"If you do I'd like to have you come and stay with us. Bring your
wife. We could talk over old times."

Lester smiled an enigmatic smile.

"I'll be glad to," he said, without emotion. But he remembered that
in the days of Jennie it was different. They would never have receded
from their position regarding her. "Well," he thought, "perhaps I
can't blame them. Let it go."

They talked on about other things. Finally Lester remembered an
appointment. "I'll have to leave you soon," he said, looking at his
watch.

"I ought to go, too," said Robert. They rose. "Well, anyhow," he
added, as they walked toward the cloakroom, "we won't be absolute
strangers in the future, will we?"

"Certainly not," said Lester. "I'll see you from time to time."
They shook hands and separated amicably. There was a sense of
unsatisfied obligation and some remorse in Robert's mind as he saw his
brother walking briskly away. Lester was an able man. Why was it that
there was so much feeling between them--had been even before
Jennie had appeared? Then he remembered his old thoughts about "snaky
deeds." That was what his brother lacked, and that only. He was not
crafty; not darkly cruel, hence. "What a world!" he thought.

On his part Lester went away feeling a slight sense of opposition
to, but also of sympathy for, his brother. He was not so terribly
bad--not different from other men. Why criticize? What would he
have done if he had been in Robert's place? Robert was getting along.
So was he. He could see now how it all came about--why he had
been made the victim, why his brother had been made the keeper of the
great fortune. "It's the way the world runs," he thought. "What
difference does it make? I have enough to live on. Why not let it go
at that?"




CHAPTER LXI


The days of man under the old dispensation, or, rather, according
to that supposedly biblical formula, which persists, are threescore
years and ten. It is so ingrained in the race-consciousness by
mouth-to-mouth utterance that it seems the profoundest of truths. As a
matter of fact, man, even under his mortal illusion, is organically
built to live five times the period of his maturity, and would do so
if he but knew that it is spirit which endures, that age is an
illusion, and that there is no death. Yet the race-thought, gained
from what dream of materialism we know not, persists, and the death of
man under the mathematical formula so fearfully accepted is daily
registered.

Lester was one of those who believed in this formula. He was
nearing sixty. He thought he had, say, twenty years more at the utmost
to live--perhaps not so long. Well, he had lived comfortably. He
felt that he could not complain. If death was coming, let it come. He
was ready at any time. No complaint or resistance would issue from
him. Life, in most of its aspects, was a silly show anyhow.

He admitted that it was mostly illusion--easily proved to be
so. That it might all be one he sometimes suspected. It was very much
like a dream in its composition truly--sometimes like a very bad
dream. All he had to sustain him in his acceptance of its reality from
hour to hour and day to day was apparent contact with this material
proposition and that--people, meetings of boards of directors,
individuals and organizations planning to do this and that, his wife's
social functions Letty loved him as a fine, grizzled example of a
philosopher. She admired, as Jennie had, his solid, determined,
phlegmatic attitude in the face of troubled circumstance. All the
winds of fortune or misfortune could not apparently excite or disturb
Lester. He refused to be frightened. He refused to budge from his
beliefs and feelings, and usually had to be pushed away from them,
still believing, if he were gotten away at all. He refused to do
anything save as he always said, "Look the facts in the face" and
fight. He could be made to fight easily enough if imposed upon, but
only in a stubborn, resisting way. His plan was to resist every effort
to coerce him to the last ditch. If he had to let go in the end he
would when compelled, but his views as to the value of not letting go
were quite the same even when he had let go under compulsion.

His views of living were still decidedly material, grounded in
creature comforts, and he had always insisted upon having the best of
everything. If the furnishings of his home became the least dingy he
was for having them torn out and sold and the house done over. If he
traveled, money must go ahead of him and smooth the way. He did not
want argument, useless talk, or silly palaver as he called it. Every
one must discuss interesting topics with him or not talk at all. Letty
understood him thoroughly. She would chuck him under the chin
mornings, or shake his solid head between her hands, telling him he
was a brute, but a nice kind of a brute. "Yes, yes," he would growl.
"I know. I'm an animal, I suppose. You're a seraphic suggestion of
attenuated thought."

"No; you hush," she would reply, for at times he could cut like a
knife without really meaning to be unkind. Then he would pet her a
little, for, in spite of her vigorous conception of life, he realized
that she was more or less dependent upon him. It was always so plain
to her that he could get along without her. For reasons of kindliness
he was trying to conceal this, to pretend the necessity of her
presence, but it was so obvious that he really could dispense with her
easily enough. Now Letty did depend upon Lester. It was something, in
so shifty and uncertain a world, to be near so fixed and determined a
quantity as this bear-man. It was like being close to a warmly glowing
lamp in the dark or a bright burning fire in the cold. Lester was not
afraid of anything. He felt that he knew how to live and to die.

It was natural that a temperament of this kind should have its
solid, material manifestation at every point. Having his financial
affairs well in hand, most of his holding being shares of big
companies, where boards of solemn directors merely approved the
strenuous efforts of ambitious executives to "make good," he had
leisure for living. He and Letty were fond of visiting the various
American and European watering-places. He gambled a little, for he
found that there was considerable diversion in risking interesting
sums on the spin of a wheel or the fortuitous roll of a ball; and he
took more and more to drinking, not in the sense that a drunkard takes
to it, but as a high liver, socially, and with all his friends. He was
inclined to drink the rich drinks when he did not take straight
whiskey--champagne, sparkling Burgundy, the expensive and
effervescent white wines. When he drank he could drink a great deal,
and he ate in proportion. Nothing must be served but the
best--soup, fish, entree, roast, game, dessert--everything
that made up a showy dinner and he had long since determined that only
a high-priced chef was worth while. They had found an old cordon
bleu, Louis Berdot, who had served in the house of one of the
great dry goods princes, and this man he engaged. He cost Lester a
hundred dollars a week, but his reply to any question was that he only
had one life to live.

The trouble with this attitude was that it adjusted nothing,
improved nothing, left everything to drift on toward an indefinite
end. If Lester had married Jennie and accepted the comparatively
meager income of ten thousand a year he would have maintained the same
attitude to the end. It would have led him to a stolid indifference to
the social world of which now necessarily he was a part. He would have
drifted on with a few mentally compatible cronies who would have
accepted him for what he was--a good fellow--and Jennie in
the end would not have been so much better off than she was now.

One of the changes which was interesting was that the Kanes
transferred their residence to New York. Mrs. Kane had become very
intimate with a group of clever women in the Eastern four hundred, or
nine hundred, and had been advised and urged to transfer the scene of
her activities to New York. She finally did so, leasing a house in
Seventy-eighth Street, near Madison Avenue. She installed a novelty
for her, a complete staff of liveried servants, after the English
fashion, and had the rooms of her house done in correlative periods.
Lester smiled at her vanity and love of show.

"You talk about your democracy," he grunted one day. "You have as
much democracy as I have religion, and that's none at all."

"Why, how you talk!" she denied. "I am democratic. We all run in
classes. You do. I'm merely accepting the logic of the situation."

"The logic of your grandmother! Do you call a butler and doorman in
red velvet a part of the necessity of the occasion?"

"I certainly do," she replied. "Maybe not the necessity exactly,
but the spirit surely. Why should you quarrel? You're the first one to
insist on perfection--to quarrel if there is any flaw in the
order of things."

"You never heard me quarrel."

"Oh, I don't mean that literally. But you demand
perfection--the exact spirit of the occasion, and you know
it."

"Maybe I do, but what has that to do with your democracy?"

"I am democratic. I insist on it. I'm as democratic in spirit as
any woman. Only I see things as they are, and conform as much as
possible for comfort's sake, and so do you. Don't you throw rocks at
my glass house, Mister Master. Yours is so transparent I can see every
move you make inside."

"I'm democratic and you're not," he teased; but he approved
thoroughly of everything she did. She was, he sometimes fancied, a
better executive in her world than he was in his.

Drifting in this fashion, wining, dining, drinking the waters of
this curative spring and that, traveling in luxurious ease and taking
no physical exercise, finally altered his body from a vigorous,
quick-moving, well-balanced organism into one where plethora of
substance was clogging every essential function. His liver, kidneys,
spleen, pancreas--every organ, in fact--had been overtaxed
for some time to keep up the process of digestion and elimination. In
the past seven years he had become uncomfortably heavy. His kidneys
were weak, and so were the arteries of his brain. By dieting, proper
exercise, the right mental attitude, he might have lived to be eighty
or ninety. As a matter of fact, he was allowing himself to drift into
a physical state in which even a slight malady might prove dangerous.
The result was inevitable, and it came.

It so happened that he and Letty had gone to the North Cape on a
cruise with a party of friends. Lester, in order to attend to some
important business, decided to return to Chicago late in November; he
arranged to have his wife meet him in New York just before the
Christmas holidays. He wrote Watson to expect him, and engaged rooms
at the Auditorium, for he had sold the Chicago residence some two
years before and was now living permanently in New York.

One late November day, after having attended to a number of details
and cleared up his affairs very materially, Lester was seized with
what the doctor who was called to attend him described as a cold in
the intestines--a disturbance usually symptomatic of some other
weakness, either of the blood or of some organ. He suffered great
pain, and the usual remedies in that case were applied. There were
bandages of red flannel with a mustard dressing, and specifics were
also administered. He experienced some relief, but he was troubled
with a sense of impending disaster. He had Watson cable his
wife--there was nothing serious about it, but he was ill. A
trained nurse was in attendance and his valet stood guard at the door
to prevent annoyance of any kind. It was plain that Letty could not
reach Chicago under three weeks. He had the feeling that he would not
see her again.

Curiously enough, not only because he was in Chicago, but because
he had never been spiritually separated from Jennie, he was thinking
about her constantly at this time. He had intended to go out and see
her just as soon as he was through with his business engagements and
before he left the city. He had asked Watson how she was getting
along, and had been informed that everything was well with her. She
was living quietly and looking in good health, so Watson said. Lester
wished he could see her.

This thought grew as the days passed and he grew no better. He was
suffering from time to time with severe attacks of griping pains that
seemed to tie his viscera into knots, and left him very weak. Several
times the physician administered cocaine with a needle in order to
relieve him of useless pain.

After one of the severe attacks he called Watson to his side, told
him to send the nurse away, and then said: "Watson, I'd like to have
you do me a favor. Ask Mrs. Stover if she won't come here to see me.
You'd better go and get her. Just send the nurse and Kozo (the valet)
away for the afternoon, or while she's here. If she comes at any other
time I'd like to have her admitted."

Watson understood. He liked this expression of sentiment. He was
sorry for Jennie. He was sorry for Lester. He wondered what the world
would think if it could know of this bit of romance in connection with
so prominent a man. Lester was decent. He had made Watson prosperous.
The latter was only too glad to serve him in any way.

He called a carriage and rode out to Jennie's residence. He found
her watering some plants; her face expressed her surprise at his
unusual presence.

"I come on a rather troublesome errand, Mrs. Stover," he said,
using her assumed name. "Your--that is, Mr. Kane is quite sick at
the Auditorium. His wife is in Europe, and he wanted to know if I
wouldn't come out here and ask you to come and see him. He wanted me
to bring you, if possible. Could you come with me now?"

"Why yes," said Jennie, her face a study. The children were in
school. An old Swedish housekeeper was in the kitchen. She could go as
well as not. But there was coming back to her in detail a dream she
had had several nights before. It had seemed to her that she was out
on a dark, mystic body of water over which was hanging something like
a fog, or a pall of smoke. She heard the water ripple, or stir
faintly, and then out of the surrounding darkness a boat appeared. It
was a little boat, oarless, or not visibly propelled, and in it were
her mother, and Vesta, and some one whom she could not make out. Her
mother's face was pale and sad, very much as she had often seen it in
life. She looked at Jennie solemnly, sympathetically, and then
suddenly Jennie realized that the third occupant of the boat was
Lester. He looked at her gloomily--an expression she had never
seen on his face before--and then her mother remarked, "Well, we
must go now." The boat began to move, a great sense of loss came over
her, and she cried, "Oh, don't leave me, mamma!"

But her mother only looked at her out of deep, sad, still eyes, and
the boat was gone.

She woke with a start, half fancying that Lester was beside her.
She stretched out her hand to touch his arm; then she drew herself up
in the dark and rubbed her eyes, realizing that she was alone. A great
sense of depression remained with her, and for two days it haunted
her. Then, when it seemed as if it were nothing, Mr. Watson appeared
with his ominous message.

She went to dress, and reappeared, looking as troubled as were her
thoughts. She was very pleasing in her appearance yet, a sweet, kindly
woman, well dressed and shapely. She had never been separated mentally
from Lester, just as he had never grown entirely away from her. She
was always with him in thought, just as in the years when they were
together. Her fondest memories were of the days when he first courted
her in Cleveland--the days when he had carried her off, much as
the cave-man seized his mate--by force. Now she longed to do what
she could for him. For this call was as much a testimony as a shock.
He loved her--he loved her, after all.

The carriage rolled briskly through the long streets into the smoky
down-town district. It arrived at the Auditorium, and Jennie was
escorted to Lester's room. Watson had been considerate. He had talked
little, leaving her to her thoughts. In this great hotel she felt
diffident after so long a period of complete retirement. As she
entered the room she looked at Lester with large, gray, sympathetic
eyes. He was lying propped up on two pillows, his solid head with its
growth of once dark brown hair slightly grayed. He looked at her
curiously out of his wise old eyes, a light of sympathy and affection
shining in them--weary as they were. Jennie was greatly
distressed. His pale face, slightly drawn from suffering, cut her like
a knife. She took his hand, which was outside the coverlet, and
pressed it. She leaned over and kissed his lips.

"I'm so sorry, Lester," she murmured. "I'm so sorry. You're not
very sick though, are you? You must get well, Lester--and soon!"
She patted his hand gently.

"Yes, Jennie, but I'm pretty bad," he said. "I don't feel right
about this business. I don't seem able to shake it off. But tell me,
how have you been?"

"Oh, just the same, dear," she replied. "I'm all right. You mustn't
talk like that, though. You're going to be all right very soon
now."

He smiled grimly. "Do you think so?" He shook his head, for he
thought differently. "Sit down, dear," he went on, "I'm not worrying
about that. I want to talk to you again. I want you near me." He
sighed and shut his eyes for a minute.

She drew up a chair close beside the bed, her face toward his, and
took his hand. It seemed such a beautiful thing that he should send
for her. Her eyes showed the mingled sympathy, affection, and
gratitude of her heart. At the same time fear gripped her; how ill he
looked!

"I can't tell what may happen," he went on. "Letty is in Europe.
I've wanted to see you again for some time. I was coming out this
trip. We are living in New York, you know. You're a little stouter,
Jennie."

"Yes, I'm getting old, Lester," she smiled.

"Oh, that doesn't make any difference," he replied, looking at her
fixedly. "Age doesn't count. We are all in that boat. It's how we feel
about life."

He stopped and stared at the ceiling. A slight twinge of pain
reminded him of the vigorous seizures he had been through. He couldn't
stand many more paroxysms like the last one.

"I couldn't go, Jennie, without seeing you again," he observed,
when the slight twinge ceased and he was free to think again. "I've
always wanted to say to you, Jennie," he went on, "that I haven't been
satisfied with the way we parted. It wasn't the right thing, after
all. I haven't been any happier. I'm sorry. I wish now, for my own
peace of mind, that I hadn't done it."

"Don't say that, Lester," she demurred, going over in her mind all
that had been between them. This was such a testimony to their real
union--their real spiritual compatibility. "It's all right. It
doesn't make any difference. You've been very good to me. I wouldn't
have been satisfied to have you lose your fortune. It couldn't be that
way. I've been a lot better satisfied as it is. It's been hard, but,
dear, everything is hard at times." She paused.

"No," he said. "It wasn't right. The thing wasn't worked out right
from the start; but that wasn't your fault. I'm sorry. I wanted to
tell you that. I'm glad I'm here to do it."

"Don't talk that way, Lester--please don't," she pleaded.
"It's all right. You needn't be sorry. There's nothing to be sorry
for. You have always been so good to me. Why, when I think--" she
stopped, for it was hard for her to speak. She was choking with
affection and sympathy. She pressed his hands. She was recalling the
house he took for her family in Cleveland, his generous treatment of
Gerhardt, all the long ago tokens of love and kindness.

"Well, I've told you now, and I feel better. You're a good woman,
Jennie, and you're kind to come to me this way." I loved you. I love
you now. I want to tell you that. It seems strange, but you're the
only woman I ever did love truly. We should never have parted.

Jennie caught her breath. It was the one thing she had waited for
all these years--this testimony. It was the one thing that could
make everything right--this confession of spiritual if not
material union. Now she could live happily. Now die so. "Oh, Lester,"
she exclaimed with a sob, and pressed his hand. He returned the
pressure. There was a little silence. Then he spoke again.

"How are the two orphans?" he asked.

"Oh, they're lovely," she answered, entering upon a detailed
description of their diminutive personalities. He listened
comfortably, for her voice was soothing to him. Her whole personality
was grateful to him. When it came time for her to go he seemed
desirous of keeping her.

"Going, Jennie?"

"I can stay just as well as not, Lester," she volunteered. "I'll
take a room. I can send a note out to Mrs. Swenson. It will be all
right."

"You needn't do that," he said, but she could see that he wanted
her, that he did not want to be alone.

From that time on until the hour of his death she was not out of
the hotel.




CHAPTER LXII


The end came after four days during which Jennie was by his bedside
almost constantly. The nurse in charge welcomed her at first as a
relief and company, but the physician was inclined to object. Lester,
however, was stubborn. "This is my death," he said, with a touch of
grim humor. "If I'm dying I ought to be allowed to die in my own
way."

Watson smiled at the man's unfaltering courage. He had never seen
anything like it before.

There were cards of sympathy, calls of inquiry, notices in the
newspaper. Robert saw an item in the Inquirer and decided to go
to Chicago. Imogene called with her husband, and they were admitted to
Lester's room for a few minutes after Jennie had gone to hers. Lester
had little to say. The nurse cautioned them that he was not to be
talked to much. When they were gone Lester said to Jennie, "Imogene
has changed a good deal." He made no other comment.

Mrs. Kane was on the Atlantic three days out from New York the
afternoon Lester died. He had been meditating whether anything more
could be done for Jennie, but he could not make up his mind about it.
Certainly it was useless to leave her more money. She did not want it.
He had been wondering where Letty was and how near her actual arrival
might be when he was seized with a tremendous paroxysm of pain. Before
relief could be administered in the shape of an anesthetic he was
dead. It developed afterward that it was not the intestinal trouble
which killed him, but a lesion of a major blood-vessel in the
brain.

Jennie, who had been strongly wrought up by watching and worrying,
was beside herself with grief. He had been a part of her thought and
feeling so long that it seemed now as though a part of herself had
died. She had loved him as she had fancied she could never love any
one, and he had always shown that he cared for her--at least in
some degree. She could not feel the emotion that expresses itself in
tears--only a dull ache, a numbness which seemed to make her
insensible to pain. He looked so strong--her Lester--lying
there still in death. His expression was unchanged--defiant,
determined, albeit peaceful. Word had come from Mrs. Kane that she
would arrive on the Wednesday following. It was decided to hold the
body. Jennie learned from Mr. Watson that it was to be transferred to
Cincinnati, where the Paces had a vault. Because of the arrival of
various members of the family, Jennie withdrew to her own home; she
could do nothing more.

The final ceremonies presented a peculiar commentary on the
anomalies of existence. It was arranged with Mrs. Kane by wire that
the body should be transferred to Imogene's residence, and the funeral
held from there. Robert, who arrived the night Lester died; Berry
Dodge, Imogene's husband; Mr. Midgely, and three other citizens of
prominence were selected as pall-bearers. Louise and her husband came
from Buffalo; Amy and her husband from Cincinnati. The house was full
to overflowing with citizens who either sincerely wished or felt it
expedient to call. Because of the fact that Lester and his family were
tentatively Catholic, a Catholic priest was called in and the ritual
of that Church was carried out. It was curious to see him lying in the
parlor of this alien residence, candles at his head and feet, burning
sepulchrally, a silver cross upon his breast, caressed by his waxen
fingers. He would have smiled if he could have seen himself, but the
Kane family was too conventional, too set in its convictions, to find
anything strange in this.

The Church made no objection, of course. The family was
distinguished. What more could be desired?

On Wednesday Mrs. Kane arrived. She was greatly distraught, for her
love, like Jennie's, was sincere. She left her room that night when
all was silent and leaned over the coffin, studying by the light of
the burning candles Lester's beloved features. Tears trickled down her
cheeks, for she had been happy with him. She caressed his cold cheeks
and hands. "Poor, dear Lester!" she whispered. "Poor, brave soul!" No
one told her that he had sent for Jennie. The Kane family did not
know.

Meanwhile in the house on South Park Avenue sat a woman who was
enduring alone the pain, the anguish of an irreparable loss. Through
all these years the subtle hope had persisted, in spite of every
circumstance, that somehow life might bring him back to her. He had
come, it is true--he really had in death--but he had gone
again. Where? Whither her mother, whither Gerhardt, whither Vesta had
gone? She could not hope to see him again, for the papers had informed
her of his removal to Mrs. Midgely's residence, and of the fact that
he was to be taken from Chicago to Cincinnati for burial. The last
ceremonies in Chicago were to be held in one of the wealthy Roman
Catholic churches of the South Side, St. Michael's, of which the
Midgelys were members.

Jennie felt deeply about this. She would have liked so much to have
had him buried in Chicago, where she could go to the grave
occasionally, but this was not to be. She was never a master of her
fate. Others invariably controlled. She thought of him as being taken
from her finally by the removal of the body to Cincinnati, as though
distance made any difference. She decided at last to veil herself
heavily and attend the funeral at the church. The paper had explained
that the services would be at two in the afternoon. Then at four the
body would be taken to the depot, and transferred to the train; the
members of the family would accompany it to Cincinnati. She thought of
this as another opportunity. She might go to the depot.

A little before the time for the funeral cortege to arrive at the
church there appeared at one of its subsidiary entrances a woman in
black, heavily veiled, who took a seat in an inconspicuous corner. She
was a little nervous at first, for, seeing that the church was dark
and empty, she feared lest she had mistaken the time and place; but
after ten minutes of painful suspense a bell in the church tower began
to toll solemnly. Shortly thereafter an acolyte in black gown and
white surplice appeared and lighted groups of candles on either side
of the altar. A hushed stirring of feet in the choir-loft indicated
that the service was to be accompanied by music. Some loiterers,
attracted by the bell, some idle strangers, a few acquaintances and
citizens not directly invited appeared and took seats.

Jennie watched all this with wondering eyes. Never in her life had
she been inside a Catholic church. The gloom, the beauty of the
windows, the whiteness of the altar, the golden flames of the candles
impressed her. She was suffused with a sense of sorrow, loss, beauty,
and mystery. Life in all its vagueness and uncertainty seemed typified
by this scene.

As the bell tolled there came from the sacristy a procession of
altar-boys. The smallest, an angelic youth of eleven, came first,
bearing aloft a magnificent silver cross. In the hands of each
subsequent pair of servitors was held a tall, lighted candle. The
priest, in black cloth and lace, attended by an acolyte on either
hand, followed. The procession passed out the entrance into the
vestibule of the church, and was not seen again until the choir began
a mournful, responsive chant, the Latin supplication for mercy and
peace.

Then, at this sound the solemn procession made its reappearance.
There came the silver cross, the candles, the dark-faced priest,
reading dramatically to himself as he walked, and the body of Lester
in a great black coffin, with silver handles, carried by the
pall-bearers, who kept an even pace. Jennie stiffened perceptibly, her
nerves responding as though to a shock from an electric current. She
did not know any of these men. She did not know Robert. She had never
seen Mr. Midgely. Of the long company of notables who followed two by
two she recognized only three, whom Lester had pointed out to her in
times past. Mrs. Kane she saw, of course, for she was directly behind
the coffin, leaning on the arm of a stranger; behind her walked Mr.
Watson, solemn, gracious. He gave a quick glance to either side,
evidently expecting to see her somewhere; but not finding her, he
turned his eyes gravely forward and walked on. Jennie looked with all
her eyes, her heart gripped by pain. She seemed so much a part of this
solemn ritual, and yet infinitely removed from it all.

The procession reached the altar rail, and the coffin was put down.
A white shroud bearing the insignia of suffering, a black cross, was
put over it, and the great candles were set beside it. There were the
chanted invocations and responses, the sprinkling of the coffin with
holy water, the lighting and swinging of the censer and then the
mumbled responses of the auditors to the Lord's Prayer and to its
Catholic addition, the invocation to the Blessed Virgin. Jennie was
overawed and amazed, but no show of form colorful, impression
imperial, could take away the sting of death, the sense of infinite
loss. To Jennie the candles, the incense, the holy song were
beautiful. They touched the deep chord of melancholy in her, and made
it vibrate through the depths of her being. She was as a house filled
with mournful melody and the presence of death. She cried and cried.
She could see, curiously, that Mrs. Kane was sobbing convulsively
also.

When it was all over the carriages were entered and the body was
borne to the station. All the guests and strangers departed, and
finally, when all was silent, she arose. Now she would go to the depot
also, for she was hopeful of seeing his body put on the train. They
would have to bring it out on the platform, just as they did in
Vesta's case. She took a car, and a little later she entered the
waiting-room of the depot. She lingered about, first in the concourse,
where the great iron fence separated the passengers from the tracks,
and then in the waiting-room, hoping to discover the order of
proceedings. She finally observed the group of immediate relatives
waiting--Mrs. Kane, Robert, Mrs. Midgely, Louise, Amy, Imogene,
and the others. She actually succeeded in identifying most of them,
though it was not knowledge in this case, but pure instinct and
intuition.

No one had noticed it in the stress of excitement, but it was
Thanksgiving Eve. Throughout the great railroad station there was a
hum of anticipation, that curious ebullition of fancy which springs
from the thought of pleasures to come. People were going away for the
holiday. Carriages were at the station entries. Announcers were
calling in stentorian voices the destination of each new train as the
time of its departure drew near. Jennie heard with a desperate ache
the description of a route which she and Lester had taken more than
once, slowly and melodiously emphasized. "Detroit, Toledo, Cleveland,
Buffalo, and New York." There were cries of trains for "Fort Wayne,
Columbus, Pittsburg, Philadelphia, and points East," and then finally
for "Indianapolis, Louisville, Columbus, Cincinnati, and points
South." The hour had struck.

Several times Jennie had gone to the concourse between the
waiting-room and the tracks to see if through the iron grating which
separated her from her beloved she could get one last look at the
coffin, or the great wooden box which held it, before it was put on
the train. Now she saw it coming. There was a baggage porter pushing a
truck into position near the place where the baggage car would stop.
On it was Lester, that last shadow of his substance, incased in the
honors of wood, and cloth, and silver. There was no thought on the
part of the porter of the agony of loss which was represented here. He
could not see how wealth and position in this hour were typified to
her mind as a great fence, a wall, which divided her eternally from
her beloved. Had it not always been so? Was not her life a patchwork
of conditions made and affected by these things which she
saw--wealth and force--which had found her unfit? She had
evidently been born to yield, not seek. This panoply of power had been
paraded before her since childhood. What could she do now but stare
vaguely after it as it marched triumphantly by? Lester had been of it.
Him it respected. Of her it knew nothing. She looked through the
grating, and once more there came the cry of "Indianapolis,
Louisville, Columbus, Cincinnati, and points South." A long red train,
brilliantly lighted, composed of baggage cars, day coaches, a
dining-car, set with white linen and silver, and a half dozen
comfortable Pullmans, rolled in and stopped. A great black engine,
puffing and glowing, had it all safely in tow.

As the baggage car drew near the waiting truck a train-hand in
blue, looking out of the car, called to some one within.

"Hey, Jack! Give us a hand here. There's a stiff outside!"

Jennie could not hear.

All she could see was the great box that was so soon to disappear.
All she could feel was that this train would start presently, and then
it would all be over. The gates opened, the passengers poured out.
There were Robert, and Amy, and Louise, and Midgely--all making
for the Pullman cars in the rear. They had said their farewells to
their friends. No need to repeat them. A trio of assistants "gave a
hand" at getting the great wooden case into the car. Jennie saw it
disappear with an acute physical wrench at her heart.

There were many trunks to be put aboard, and then the door of the
baggage car half closed, but not before the warning bell of the engine
sounded. There was the insistent calling of "all aboard" from this
quarter and that; then slowly the great locomotive began to move. Its
bell was ringing, its steam hissing, its smoke-stack throwing aloft a
great black plume of smoke that fell back over the cars like a pall.
The fireman, conscious of the heavy load behind, flung open a flaming
furnace door to throw in coal. Its light glowed like a golden eye.

Jennie stood rigid, staring into the wonder of this picture, her
face white, her eyes wide, her hands unconsciously clasped, but one
thought in her mind--they were taking his body away. A leaden
November sky was ahead, almost dark. She looked, and looked until the
last glimmer of the red lamp on the receding sleeper disappeared in
the maze of smoke and haze overhanging the tracks of the
far-stretching yard.

"Yes," said the voice of a passing stranger, gay with the
anticipation of coming pleasures. "We're going to have a great time
down there. Remember Annie? Uncle Jim is coming and Aunt Ella."

Jennie did not hear that or anything else of the chatter and bustle
around her. Before her was stretching a vista of lonely years down
which she was steadily gazing. Now what? She was not so old yet. There
were those two orphan children to raise. They would marry and leave
after a while, and then what? Days and days in endless reiteration,
and then--?



BOOK I. THE PROBLEM



I. "A GREAT CASE"


    "A deed of dreadful note."
       --Macbeth.

I had been a junior partner in the firm of Veeley, Carr & Raymond,
attorneys and counsellors at law, for about a year, when one morning, in
the temporary absence of both Mr. Veeley and Mr. Carr, there came into
our office a young man whose whole appearance was so indicative of haste
and agitation that I involuntarily rose at his approach and impetuously
inquired:

"What is the matter? You have no bad news to tell, I hope."

"I have come to see Mr. Veeley; is he in?"

"No," I replied; "he was unexpectedly called away this morning to
Washington; cannot be home before to-morrow; but if you will make your
business known to me----"

"To you, sir?" he repeated, turning a very cold but steady eye on mine;
then, seeming to be satisfied with his scrutiny, continued, "There is no
reason why I shouldn't; my business is no secret. I came to inform him
that Mr. Leavenworth is dead."

"Mr. Leavenworth!" I exclaimed, falling back a step. Mr. Leavenworth was
an old client of our firm, to say nothing of his being the particular
friend of Mr. Veeley.

"Yes, murdered; shot through the head by some unknown person while
sitting at his library table."

"Shot! murdered!" I could scarcely believe my ears.

"How? when?" I gasped.

"Last night. At least, so we suppose. He was not found till this
morning. I am Mr. Leavenworth's private secretary," he explained, "and
live in the family. It was a dreadful shock," he went on, "especially to
the ladies."

"Dreadful!" I repeated. "Mr. Veeley will be overwhelmed by it."

"They are all alone," he continued in a low businesslike way
I afterwards found to be inseparable from the man; "the Misses
Leavenworth, I mean--Mr. Leavenworth's nieces; and as an inquest is
to be held there to-day it is deemed proper for them to have some one
present capable of advising them. As Mr. Veeley was their uncle's best
friend, they naturally sent me for him; but he being absent I am at a
loss what to do or where to go."

"I am a stranger to the ladies," was my hesitating reply, "but if I can
be of any assistance to them, my respect for their uncle is such----"

The expression of the secretary's eye stopped me. Without seeming to
wander from my face, its pupil had suddenly dilated till it appeared to
embrace my whole person with its scope.

"I don't know," he finally remarked, a slight frown, testifying to
the fact that he was not altogether pleased with the turn affairs
were taking. "Perhaps it would be best. The ladies must not be left
alone----"

"Say no more; I will go." And, sitting down, I despatched a hurried
message to Mr. Veeley, after which, and the few other preparations
necessary, I accompanied the secretary to the street.

"Now," said I, "tell me all you know of this frightful affair."

"All I know? A few words will do that. I left him last night sitting as
usual at his library table, and found him this morning, seated in the
same place, almost in the same position, but with a bullet-hole in his
head as large as the end of my little finger."

"Dead?"

"Stone-dead."

"Horrible!" I exclaimed. Then, after a moment, "Could it have been a
suicide?"

"No. The pistol with which the deed was committed is not to be found."

"But if it was a murder, there must have been some motive. Mr.
Leavenworth was too benevolent a man to have enemies, and if robbery was
intended----"

"There was no robbery. There is nothing missing," he again interrupted.
"The whole affair is a mystery."

"A mystery?"

"An utter mystery."

Turning, I looked at my informant curiously. The inmate of a house in
which a mysterious murder had occurred was rather an interesting object.
But the good-featured and yet totally unimpressive countenance of the
man beside me offered but little basis for even the wildest imagination
to work upon, and, glancing almost immediately away, I asked:

"Are the ladies very much overcome?"

He took at least a half-dozen steps before replying.

"It would be unnatural if they were not." And whether it was the
expression of his face at the time, or the nature of the reply itself,
I felt that in speaking of these ladies to this uninteresting,
self-possessed secretary of the late Mr. Leavenworth, I was somehow
treading upon dangerous ground. As I had heard they were very
accomplished women, I was not altogether pleased at this discovery. It
was, therefore, with a certain consciousness of relief I saw a Fifth
Avenue stage approach.

"We will defer our conversation," said I. "Here's the stage."

But, once seated within it, we soon discovered that all intercourse upon
such a subject was impossible. Employing the time, therefore, in
running over in my mind what I knew of Mr. Leavenworth, I found that my
knowledge was limited to the bare fact of his being a retired merchant
of great wealth and fine social position who, in default of possessing
children of his own, had taken into his home two nieces, one of whom had
already been declared his heiress. To be sure, I had heard Mr. Veeley
speak of his eccentricities, giving as an instance this very fact of his
making a will in favor of one niece to the utter exclusion of the other;
but of his habits of life and connection with the world at large, I knew
little or nothing.

There was a great crowd in front of the house when we arrived there, and
I had barely time to observe that it was a corner dwelling of unusual
depth when I was seized by the throng and carried quite to the foot of
the broad stone steps. Extricating myself, though with some difficulty,
owing to the importunities of a bootblack and butcher-boy, who seemed
to think that by clinging to my arms they might succeed in smuggling
themselves into the house, I mounted the steps and, finding the
secretary, by some unaccountable good fortune, close to my side,
hurriedly rang the bell. Immediately the door opened, and a face I
recognized as that of one of our city detectives appeared in the gap.

"Mr. Gryce!" I exclaimed.

"The same," he replied. "Come in, Mr. Raymond." And drawing us quietly
into the house, he shut the door with a grim smile on the disappointed
crowd without. "I trust you are not surprised to see me here," said he,
holding out his hand, with a side glance at my companion.

"No," I returned. Then, with a vague idea that I ought to introduce the
young man at my side, continued: "This is Mr. ----, Mr. ----, --excuse
me, but I do not know your name," I said inquiringly to my companion.
"The private secretary of the late Mr. Leavenworth," I hastened to add.

"Oh," he returned, "the secretary! The coroner has been asking for you,
sir."

"The coroner is here, then?"

"Yes; the jury have just gone up-stairs to view the body; would you like
to follow them?"

"No, it is not necessary. I have merely come in the hope of being of
some assistance to the young ladies. Mr. Veeley is away."

"And you thought the opportunity too good to be lost," he went on;
"just so. Still, now that you are here, and as the case promises to be
a marked one, I should think that, as a rising young lawyer, you would
wish to make yourself acquainted with it in all its details. But follow
your own judgment."

I made an effort and overcame my repugnance. "I will go," said I.

"Very well, then, follow me."

But just as I set foot on the stairs I heard the jury descending, so,
drawing back with Mr. Gryce into a recess between the reception room and
the parlor, I had time to remark:

"The young man says it could not have been the work of a burglar."

"Indeed!" fixing his eye on a door-knob near by.

"That nothing has been found missing--"

"And that the fastenings to the house were all found secure this
morning; just so."

"He did not tell me that. In that case"--and I shuddered--"the murderer
must have been in the house all night."

Mr. Gryce smiled darkly at the door-knob.

"It has a dreadful look!" I exclaimed.

Mr. Gryce immediately frowned at the door-knob.

And here let me say that Mr. Gryce, the detective, was not the thin,
wiry individual with the piercing eye you are doubtless expecting to
see. On the contrary, Mr. Gryce was a portly, comfortable personage with
an eye that never pierced, that did not even rest on _you._ If it rested
anywhere, it was always on some insignificant object in the vicinity,
some vase, inkstand, book, or button. These things he would seem to take
into his confidence, make the repositories of his conclusions; but as
for you--you might as well be the steeple on Trinity Church, for all
connection you ever appeared to have with him or his thoughts. At
present, then, Mr. Gryce was, as I have already suggested, on intimate
terms with the door-knob.

"A dreadful look," I repeated.

His eye shifted to the button on my sleeve.

"Come," he said, "the coast is clear at last."

Leading the way, he mounted the stairs, but stopped on the upper
landing. "Mr. Raymond," said he, "I am not in the habit of talking much
about the secrets of my profession, but in this case everything depends
upon getting the right clue at the start. We have no common villainy
to deal with here; genius has been at work. Now sometimes an absolutely
uninitiated mind will intuitively catch at something which the most
highly trained intellect will miss. If such a thing should occur,
remember that I am your man. Don't go round talking, but come to me. For
this is going to be a great case, mind you, a great case. Now, come on."

"But the ladies?"

"They are in the rooms above; in grief, of course, but tolerably
composed for all that, I hear." And advancing to a door, he pushed it
open and beckoned me in.

All was dark for a moment, but presently, my eyes becoming accustomed to
the place, I saw that we were in the library.

"It was here he was found," said he; "in this room and upon this
very spot." And advancing, he laid his hand on the end of a large
baize-covered table that, together with its attendant chairs, occupied
the centre of the room. "You see for yourself that it is directly
opposite this door," and, crossing the floor, he paused in front of the
threshold of a narrow passageway, opening into a room beyond. "As the
murdered man was discovered sitting in this chair, and consequently with
his back towards the passageway, the assassin must have advanced through
the doorway to deliver his shot, pausing, let us say, about here." And
Mr. Gryce planted his feet firmly upon a certain spot in the carpet,
about a foot from the threshold before mentioned.

"But--" I hastened to interpose.

"There is no room for 'but,'" he cried. "We have studied the situation."
And without deigning to dilate upon the subject, he turned immediately
about and, stepping swiftly before me, led the way into the passage
named. "Wine closet, clothes closet, washing apparatus, towel-rack,"
he explained, waving his hand from side to side as we hurried through,
finishing with "Mr. Leavenworth's private apartment," as that room of
comfortable aspect opened upon us.

Mr. Leavenworth's private apartment! It was here then that _it_ ought
to be, the horrible, blood-curdling _it_ that yesterday was a living,
breathing man. Advancing to the bed that was hung with heavy curtains,
I raised my hand to put them back, when Mr. Gryce, drawing them from
my clasp, disclosed lying upon the pillow a cold, calm face looking so
natural I involuntarily started.

"His death was too sudden to distort the features," he remarked, turning
the head to one side in a way to make visible a ghastly wound in the
back of the cranium. "Such a hole as that sends a man out of the world
without much notice. The surgeon will convince you it could never have
been inflicted by himself. It is a case of deliberate murder."

Horrified, I drew hastily back, when my glance fell upon a door situated
directly opposite me in the side of the wall towards the hall. It
appeared to be the only outlet from the room, with the exception of the
passage through which we had entered, and I could not help wondering
if it was through this door the assassin had entered on his roundabout
course to the library. But Mr. Gryce, seemingly observant of my glance,
though his own was fixed upon the chandelier, made haste to remark, as
if in reply to the inquiry in my face:

"Found locked on the inside; may have come that way and may not; we
don't pretend to say."

Observing now that the bed was undisturbed in its arrangement, I
remarked, "He had not retired, then?"

"No; the tragedy must be ten hours old. Time for the murderer to have
studied the situation and provided for all contingencies."

"The murderer? Whom do you suspect?" I whispered.

He looked impassively at the ring on my finger.

"Every one and nobody. It is not for me to suspect, but to detect." And
dropping the curtain into its former position he led me from the room.

The coroner's inquest being now in session, I felt a strong desire to be
present, so, requesting Mr. Gryce to inform the ladies that Mr. Veeley
was absent from town, and that I had come as his substitute, to render
them any assistance they might require on so melancholy an occasion, I
proceeded to the large parlor below, and took my seat among the various
persons there assembled.



II. THE CORONER'S INQUEST


    "The baby figure of the giant mass
     Of things to come."
        --Troilus and Cressida.

FOR a few minutes I sat dazed by the sudden flood of light greeting me
from the many open windows; then, as the strongly contrasting
features of the scene before me began to impress themselves upon
my consciousness, I found myself experiencing something of the same
sensation of double personality which years before had followed an
enforced use of ether. As at that time, I appeared to be living two
lives at once: in two distinct places, with two separate sets
of incidents going on; so now I seemed to be divided between two
irreconcilable trains of thought; the gorgeous house, its elaborate
furnishing, the little glimpses of yesterday's life, as seen in the open
piano, with its sheet of music held in place by a lady's fan, occupying
my attention fully as much as the aspect of the throng of incongruous
and impatient people huddled about me.

Perhaps one reason of this lay in the extraordinary splendor of the room
I was in; the glow of satin, glitter of bronze, and glimmer of marble
meeting the eye at every turn. But I am rather inclined to think it
was mainly due to the force and eloquence of a certain picture which
confronted me from the opposite wall. A sweet picture--sweet enough and
poetic enough to have been conceived by the most idealistic of artists:
simple, too--the vision of a young flaxen-haired, blue-eyed coquette,
dressed in the costume of the First Empire, standing in a wood-path,
looking back over her shoulder at some one following--yet with such a
dash of something not altogether saint-like in the corners of her meek
eyes and baby-like lips, that it impressed me with the individuality of
life. Had it not been for the open dress, with its waist almost beneath
the armpits, the hair cut short on the forehead, and the perfection of
the neck and shoulders, I should have taken it for a literal portrait of
one of the ladies of the house. As it was, I could not rid myself of the
idea that one, if not both, of Mr. Leavenworth's nieces looked down upon
me from the eyes of this entrancing blonde with the beckoning glance
and forbidding hand. So vividly did this fancy impress me that I half
shuddered as I looked, wondering if this sweet creature did not know
what had occurred in this house since the happy yesterday; and if so,
how she could stand there smiling so invitingly,--when suddenly I became
aware that I had been watching the little crowd of men about me with as
complete an absorption as if nothing else in the room had attracted
my attention; that the face of the coroner, sternly intelligent and
attentive, was as distinctly imprinted upon my mind as that of this
lovely picture, or the clearer-cut and more noble features of the
sculptured Psyche, shining in mellow beauty from the crimson-hung window
at his right; yes, even that the various countenances of the jurymen
clustered before me, commonplace and insignificant as most of them were;
the trembling forms of the excited servants crowded into a far corner;
and the still more disagreeable aspect of the pale-faced, seedy
reporter, seated at a small table and writing with a ghoul-like avidity
that made my flesh creep, were each and all as fixed an element in the
remarkable scene before me as the splendor of the surroundings which
made their presence such a nightmare of discord and unreality.

I have spoken of the coroner. As fortune would have it, he was no
stranger to me. I had not only seen him before, but had held frequent
conversation with him; in fact, knew him. His name was Hammond, and he
was universally regarded as a man of more than ordinary acuteness, fully
capable of conducting an important examination, with the necessary skill
and address. Interested as I was, or rather was likely to be, in this
particular inquiry, I could not but congratulate myself upon our good
fortune in having so intelligent a coroner.

As for his jurymen, they were, as I have intimated, very much like
all other bodies of a similar character. Picked up at random from the
streets, but from such streets as the Fifth and Sixth Avenues,
they presented much the same appearance of average intelligence and
refinement as might be seen in the chance occupants of one of our city
stages. Indeed, I marked but one amongst them all who seemed to take
any interest in the inquiry as an inquiry; all the rest appearing to be
actuated in the fulfilment of their duty by the commoner instincts of
pity and indignation.

Dr. Maynard, the well-known surgeon of Thirty-sixth Street, was the
first witness called. His testimony concerned the nature of the wound
found in the murdered man's head. As some of the facts presented by him
are likely to prove of importance to us in our narrative, I will proceed
to give a synopsis of what he said.

Prefacing his remarks with some account of himself, and the manner in
which he had been summoned to the house by one of the servants, he went
on to state that, upon his arrival, he found the deceased lying on a
bed in the second-story front room, with the blood clotted about a
pistol-wound in the back of the head; having evidently been carried
there from the adjoining apartment some hours after death. It was the
only wound discovered on the body, and having probed it, he had found
and extracted the bullet which he now handed to the jury. It was lying
in the brain, having entered at the base of the skull, passed obliquely
upward, and at once struck the _medulla oblongata,_ causing instant
death. The fact of the ball having entered the brain in this peculiar
manner he deemed worthy of note, since it would produce not only
instantaneous death, but an utterly motionless one. Further, from the
position of the bullet-hole and the direction taken by the bullet, it
was manifestly impossible that the shot should have been fired by the
man himself, even if the condition of the hair about the wound did not
completely demonstrate the fact that the shot was fired from a point
some three or four feet distant. Still further, considering the angle at
which the bullet had entered the skull, it was evident that the deceased
must not only have been seated at the time, a fact about which there
could be no dispute, but he must also have been engaged in some
occupation which drew his head forward. For, in order that a ball should
enter the head of a man sitting erect at the angle seen here, of 45
degrees, it would be necessary, not only for the pistol to be held very
low down, but in a peculiar position; while if the head had been bent
forward, as in the act of writing, a man holding a pistol naturally
with the elbow bent, might very easily fire a ball into the brain at the
angle observed.

Upon being questioned in regard to the bodily health of Mr. Leavenworth,
he replied that the deceased appeared to have been in good condition at
the time of his death, but that, not being his attendant physician,
he could not speak conclusively upon the subject without further
examination; and, to the remark of a juryman, observed that he had not
seen pistol or weapon lying upon the floor, or, indeed, anywhere else in
either of the above-mentioned rooms.

I might as well add here what he afterwards stated, that from the
position of the table, the chair, and the door behind it, the murderer,
in order to satisfy all the conditions imposed by the situation, must
have stood upon, or just within, the threshold of the passageway leading
into the room beyond. Also, that as the ball was small, and from a
rifled barrel, and thus especially liable to deflections while passing
through bones and integuments, it seemed to him evident that the victim
had made no effort to raise or turn his head when advanced upon by
his destroyer; the fearful conclusion being that the footstep was an
accustomed one, and the presence of its possessor in the room either
known or expected.

The physician's testimony being ended, the coroner picked up the bullet
which had been laid on the table before him, and for a moment rolled
it contemplatively between his fingers; then, drawing a pencil from his
pocket, hastily scrawled a line or two on a piece of paper and, calling
an officer to his side, delivered some command in a low tone. The
officer, taking up the slip, looked at it for an instant knowingly, then
catching up his hat left the room. Another moment, and the front door
closed on him, and a wild halloo from the crowd of urchins without told
of his appearance in the street. Sitting where I did, I had a full view
of the corner. Looking out, I saw the officer stop there, hail a cab,
hastily enter it, and disappear in the direction of Broadway.



III. FACTS AND DEDUCTIONS


    "Confusion now hath made his master-piece;
    Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
    The Lord's anointed temple, and stolen thence
    The life of the building."
        --Macbeth.

TURNING my attention back into the room where I was, I found the
coroner consulting a memorandum through a very impressive pair of gold
eye-glasses.

"Is the butler here?" he asked.

Immediately there was a stir among the group of servants in the corner,
and an intelligent-looking, though somewhat pompous, Irishman stepped
out from their midst and confronted the jury. "Ah," thought I to
myself, as my glance encountered his precise whiskers, steady eye, and
respectfully attentive, though by no means humble, expression, "here is
a model servant, who is likely to prove a model witness." And I was not
mistaken; Thomas, the butler, was in all respects one in a thousand--and
he knew it.

The coroner, upon whom, as upon all others in the room, he seemed to
have made the like favorable impression, proceeded without hesitation to
interrogate him.

"Your name, I am told, is Thomas Dougherty?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, Thomas, how long have you been employed in your present
situation?"

"It must be a matter of two years now, sir."

"You are the person who first discovered the body of Mr. Leavenworth?"

"Yes, sir; I and Mr. Harwell."

"And who is Mr. Harwell?"

"Mr. Harwell is Mr. Leavenworth's private secretary, sir; the one who
did his writing."

"Very good. Now at what time of the day or night did you make this
discovery?"

"It was early, sir; early this morning, about eight."

"And where?"

"In the library, sir, off Mr. Leavenworth's bedroom. We had forced our
way in, feeling anxious about his not coming to breakfast."

"You forced your way in; the door was locked, then?"

"Yes, sir."

"On the inside?"

"That I cannot tell; there was no key in the door."

"Where was Mr. Leavenworth lying when you first found him?"

"He was not lying, sir. He was seated at the large table in the centre
of his room, his back to the bedroom door, leaning forward, his head on
his hands."

"How was he dressed?"

"In his dinner suit, sir, just as he came from the table last night."

"Were there any evidences in the room that a struggle had taken place?"

"No, sir."

"Any pistol on the floor or table?"

"No, sir?"

"Any reason to suppose that robbery had been attempted?"

"No, sir. Mr. Leavenworth's watch and purse were both in his pockets."

Being asked to mention who were in the house at the time of the
discovery, he replied, "The young ladies, Miss Mary Leavenworth and
Miss Eleanore, Mr. Harwell, Kate the cook, Molly the upstairs girl, and
myself."

"The usual members of the household?"

"Yes, sir."

"Now tell me whose duty it is to close up the house at night."

"Mine, sir."

"Did you secure it as usual, last night?"

"I did, sir."

"Who unfastened it this morning?"

"I, sir."

"How did you find it?"

"Just as I left it."

"What, not a window open nor a door unlocked?"

"No, sir."

By this time you could have heard a pin drop. The certainty that the
murderer, whoever he was, had not left the house, at least till after it
was opened in the morning, seemed to weigh upon all minds. Forewarned as
I had been of the fact, I could not but feel a certain degree of emotion
at having it thus brought before me; and, moving so as to bring the
butler's face within view, searched it for some secret token that he had
spoken thus emphatically in order to cover up some failure of duty
on his own part. But it was unmoved in its candor, and sustained the
concentrated gaze of all in the room like a rock.

Being now asked when he had last seen Mr. Leavenworth alive, he replied,
"At dinner last night."

"He was, however, seen later by some of you?"

"Yes, sir; Mr. Harwell says he saw him as late as half-past ten in the
evening."

"What room do you occupy in this house?"

"A little one on the basement floor."

"And where do the other members of the household sleep?"

"Mostly on the third floor, sir; the ladies in the large back rooms, and
Mr. Harwell in the little one in front. The girls sleep above."

"There was no one on the same floor with Mr. Leavenworth?"

"No, sir."

"At what hour did you go to bed?"

"Well, I should say about eleven."

"Did you hear any noise in the house either before or after that time,
that you remember?"

"No, sir."

"So that the discovery you made this morning was a surprise to you?"

"Yes, sir."

Requested now to give a more detailed account of that discovery, he
went on to say it was not till Mr. Leavenworth failed to come to his
breakfast at the call of the bell that any suspicion arose in the house
that all was not right. Even then they waited some little time before
doing anything, but as minute after minute went by and he did not come,
Miss Eleanore grew anxious, and finally left the room saying she would
go and see what was the matter, but soon returned looking very much
frightened, saying she had knocked at her uncle's door, and had even
called to him, but could get no answer. At which Mr. Harwell and himself
had gone up and together tried both doors, and, finding them locked,
burst open that of the library, when they came upon Mr. Leavenworth, as
he had already said, sitting at the table, dead.

"And the ladies?"

"Oh, they followed us up and came into the room and Miss Eleanore
fainted away."

"And the other one,--Miss Mary, I believe they call her?"

"I don't remember anything about her; I was so busy fetching water to
restore Miss Eleanore, I didn't notice."

"Well, how long was it before Mr. Leavenworth was carried into the next
room?"

"Almost immediate, as soon as Miss Eleanore recovered, and that was as
soon as ever the water touched her lips."

"Who proposed that the body should be carried from the spot?"

"She, sir. As soon as ever she stood up she went over to it and looked
at it and shuddered, and then calling Mr. Harwell and me, bade us carry
him in and lay him on the bed and go for the doctor, which we did."

"Wait a moment; did she go with you when you went into the other room?"

"No, sir."

"What did she do?"

"She stayed by the library table."

"What doing?"

"I couldn't see; her back was to me."

"How long did she stay there?"

"She was gone when we came back."

"Gone from the table?"

"Gone from the room."

"Humph! when did you see her again?"

"In a minute. She came in at the library door as we went out."

"Anything in her hand?"

"Not as I see."

"Did you miss anything from the table?"

"I never thought to look, sir. The table was nothing to me. I was only
thinking of going for the doctor, though I knew it was of no use."

"Whom did you leave in the room when you went out?"

"The cook, sir, and Molly, sir, and Miss Eleanore."

"Not Miss Mary?"

"No, sir."

"Very well. Have the jury any questions to put to this man?"

A movement at once took place in that profound body.

"I should like to ask a few," exclaimed a weazen-faced, excitable little
man whom I had before noticed shifting in his seat in a restless manner
strongly suggestive of an intense but hitherto repressed desire to
interrupt the proceedings.

"Very well, sir," returned Thomas.

But the juryman stopping to draw a deep breath, a large and decidedly
pompous man who sat at his right hand seized the opportunity to inquire
in a round, listen-to-me sort of voice:

"You say you have been in the family for two years. Was it what you
might call a united family?"

"United?"

"Affectionate, you know,--on good terms with each other." And the
juryman lifted the very long and heavy watch-chain that hung across
his vest as if that as well as himself had a right to a suitable and
well-considered reply.

The butler, impressed perhaps by his manner, glanced uneasily around.
"Yes, sir, so far as I know."

"The young ladies were attached to their uncle?"

"O yes, sir."

"And to each other?"

"Well, yes, I suppose so; it's not for me to say."

"You suppose so. Have you any reason to think otherwise?" And he doubled
the watch-chain about his fingers as if he would double its attention as
well as his own.

Thomas hesitated a moment. But just as his interlocutor was about to
repeat his question, he drew himself up into a rather stiff and formal
attitude and replied:

"Well, sir, no."

The juryman, for all his self-assertion, seemed to respect the reticence
of a servant who declined to give his opinion in regard to such a
matter, and drawing complacently back, signified with a wave of his hand
that he had no more to say.

Immediately the excitable little man, before mentioned, slipped forward
to the edge of his chair and asked, this time without hesitation: "At
what time did you unfasten the house this morning?"

"About six, sir."

"Now, could any one leave the house after that time without your
knowledge?"

Thomas glanced a trifle uneasily at his fellow-servants, but answered up
promptly and as if without reserve;

"I don't think it would be possible for anybody to leave this house
after six in the morning without either myself or the cook's knowing of
it. Folks don't jump from second-story windows in broad daylight, and as
to leaving by the doors, the front door closes with such a slam all the
house can hear it from top to bottom, and as for the back-door, no one
that goes out of that can get clear of the yard without going by the
kitchen window, and no one can go by our kitchen window without the
cook's a-seeing of them, that I can just swear to." And he cast a
half-quizzing, half-malicious look at the round, red-faced individual
in question, strongly suggestive of late and unforgotten bickerings over
the kitchen coffee-urn and castor.

This reply, which was of a nature calculated to deepen the forebodings
which had already settled upon the minds of those present, produced a
visible effect. The house found locked, and no one seen to leave it!
Evidently, then, we had not far to look for the assassin.

Shifting on his chair with increased fervor, if I may so speak, the
juryman glanced sharply around. But perceiving the renewed interest
in the faces about him, declined to weaken the effect of the last
admission, by any further questions. Settling, therefore, comfortably
back, he left the field open for any other juror who might choose to
press the inquiry. But no one seeming to be ready to do this, Thomas in
his turn evinced impatience, and at last, looking respectfully around,
inquired:

"Would any other gentleman like to ask me anything?"

No one replying, he threw a hurried glance of relief towards the
servants at his side, then, while each one marvelled at the sudden
change that had taken place in his countenance, withdrew with an eager
alacrity and evident satisfaction for which I could not at the moment
account.

But the next witness proving to be none other than my acquaintance of
the morning, Mr. Harwell, I soon forgot both Thomas and the doubts his
last movement had awakened, in the interest which the examination of
so important a person as the secretary and right-hand man of Mr.
Leavenworth was likely to create.

Advancing with the calm and determined air of one who realized that life
and death itself might hang upon his words, Mr. Harwell took his stand
before the jury with a degree of dignity not only highly prepossessing
in itself, but to me, who had not been over and above pleased with him
in our first interview, admirable and surprising. Lacking, as I
have said, any distinctive quality of face or form agreeable or
otherwise--being what you might call in appearance a negative sort of
person, his pale, regular features, dark, well-smoothed hair and simple
whiskers, all belonging to a recognized type and very commonplace--there
was still visible, on this occasion at least, a certain self-possession
in his carriage, which went far towards making up for the want of
impressiveness in his countenance and expression. Not that even this was
in any way remarkable. Indeed, there was nothing remarkable about the
man, any more than there is about a thousand others you meet every day
on Broadway, unless you except the look of concentration and solemnity
which pervaded his whole person; a solemnity which at this time would
not have been noticeable, perhaps, if it had not appeared to be the
habitual expression of one who in his short life had seen more of sorrow
than joy, less of pleasure than care and anxiety.

The coroner, to whom his appearance one way or the other seemed to be a
matter of no moment, addressed him immediately and without reserve:

"Your name?"

"James Trueman Harwell."

"Your business?"

"I have occupied the position of private secretary and amanuensis to Mr.
Leavenworth for the past eight months."

"You are the person who last saw Mr. Leavenworth alive, are you not?"

The young man raised his head with a haughty gesture which well-nigh
transfigured it.

"Certainly not, as I am not the man who killed him."

This answer, which seemed to introduce something akin to levity or
badinage into an examination the seriousness of which we were all
beginning to realize, produced an immediate revulsion of feeling toward
the man who, in face of facts revealed and to be revealed, could so
lightly make use of it. A hum of disapproval swept through the room, and
in that one remark, James Harwell lost all that he had previously won
by the self-possession of his bearing and the unflinching regard of his
eye. He seemed himself to realize this, for he lifted his head still
higher, though his general aspect remained unchanged.

"I mean," the coroner exclaimed, evidently nettled that the young man
had been able to draw such a conclusion from his words, "that you were
the last one to see him previous to his assassination by some unknown
individual?"

The secretary folded his arms, whether to hide a certain tremble which
had seized him, or by that simple action to gain time for a moment's
further thought, I could not then determine. "Sir," he replied at
length, "I cannot answer yes or no to that question. In all probability
I was the last to see him in good health and spirits, but in a house as
large as this I cannot be sure of even so simple a fact as that." Then,
observing the unsatisfied look on the faces around, added slowly, "It is
my business to see him late."

"Your business? Oh, as his secretary, I suppose?"

He gravely nodded.

"Mr. Harwell," the coroner went on, "the office of private secretary
in this country is not a common one. Will you explain to us what your
duties were in that capacity; in short, what use Mr. Leavenworth had for
such an assistant and how he employed you?"

"Certainly. Mr. Leavenworth was, as you perhaps know, a man of great
wealth. Connected with various societies, clubs, institutions, etc.,
besides being known far and near as a giving man, he was accustomed
every day of his life to receive numerous letters, begging and
otherwise, which it was my business to open and answer, his private
correspondence always bearing a mark upon it which distinguished it from
the rest. But this was not all I was expected to do. Having in his early
life been engaged in the tea-trade, he had made more than one voyage
to China, and was consequently much interested in the question of
international communication between that country and our own. Thinking
that in his various visits there, he had learned much which, if known
to the American people, would conduce to our better understanding of the
nation, its peculiarities, and the best manner of dealing with it, he
has been engaged for some time in writing a book on the subject, which
same it has been my business for the last eight months to assist him
in preparing, by writing at his dictation three hours out of the
twenty-four, the last hour being commonly taken from the evening, say
from half-past nine to half-past ten, Mr. Leavenworth being a very
methodical man and accustomed to regulate his own life and that of those
about him with almost mathematical precision."

"You say you were accustomed to write at his dictation evenings? Did you
do this as usual last evening?"

"I did, sir."

"What can you tell us of his manner and appearance at the time? Were
they in any way unusual?"

A frown crossed the secretary's brow.

"As he probably had no premonition of his doom, why should there have
been any change in his manner?"

This giving the coroner an opportunity to revenge himself for his
discomfiture of a moment before, he said somewhat severely:

"It is the business of a witness to answer questions, not to put them."

The secretary flushed and the account stood even.

"Very well, then, sir; if Mr. Leavenworth felt any forebodings of his
end, he did not reveal them to me. On the contrary, he seemed to be more
absorbed in his work than usual. One of the last words he said to
me was, 'In a month we will have this book in press, eh, Trueman?' I
remember this particularly, as he was filling his wine-glass at the
time. He always drank one glass of wine before retiring, it being my
duty to bring the decanter of sherry from the closet the last thing
before leaving him. I was standing with my hand on the knob of the
hall-door, but advanced as he said this and replied, 'I hope so, indeed,
Mr. Leavenworth.' 'Then join me in drinking a glass of sherry,' said he,
motioning me to procure another glass from the closet. I did so, and he
poured me out the wine with his own hand. I am not especially fond of
sherry, but the occasion was a pleasant one and I drained my glass. I
remember being slightly ashamed of doing so, for Mr. Leavenworth set his
down half full. It was half full when we found him this morning."

Do what he would, and being a reserved man he appeared anxious to
control his emotion, the horror of his first shock seemed to overwhelm
him here. Pulling his handkerchief from his pocket, he wiped his
forehead. "Gentlemen, that is the last action of Mr. Leavenworth I ever
saw. As he set the glass down on the table, I said good-night to him and
left the room."

The coroner, with a characteristic imperviousness to all expressions
of emotion, leaned back and surveyed the young man with a scrutinizing
glance. "And where did you go then?" he asked.

"To my own room."

"Did you meet anybody on the way?"

"No, sir."

"Hear any thing or see anything unusual?"

The secretary's voice fell a trifle. "No, sir."

"Mr. Harwell, think again. Are you ready to swear that you neither
met anybody, heard anybody, nor saw anything which lingers yet in your
memory as unusual?"

His face grew quite distressed. Twice he opened his lips to speak,
and as often closed them without doing so. At last, with an effort, he
replied:

"I saw one thing, a little thing, too slight to mention, but it was
unusual, and I could not help thinking of it when you spoke."

"What was it?"

"Only a door half open."

"Whose door?"

"Miss Eleanore Leavenworth's." His voice was almost a whisper now.

"Where were you when you observed this fact?"

"I cannot say exactly. Probably at my own door, as I did not stop on
the way. If this frightful occurrence had not taken place I should never
have thought of it again."

"When you went into your room did you close your door?"

"I did, sir."

"How soon did you retire?"

"Immediately."

"Did you hear nothing before you fell asleep?"

Again that indefinable hesitation.

"Barely nothing."

"Not a footstep in the hall?"

"I might have heard a footstep."

"Did you?"

"I cannot swear I did."

"Do you think you did?"

"Yes, I think I did. To tell the whole: I remember hearing, just as I
was falling into a doze, a rustle and a footstep in the hall; but it
made no impression upon me, and I dropped asleep."

"Well?"

"Some time later I woke, woke suddenly, as if something had startled me,
but what, a noise or move, I cannot say. I remember rising up in my bed
and looking around, but hearing nothing further, soon yielded to the
drowsiness which possessed me and fell into a deep sleep. I did not wake
again till morning."

Here requested to relate how and when he became acquainted with the fact
of the murder, he substantiated, in all particulars, the account of the
matter already given by the butler; which subject being exhausted, the
coroner went on to ask if he had noted the condition of the library
table after the body had been removed.

"Somewhat; yes, sir."

"What was on it?"

"The usual properties, sir, books, paper, a pen with the ink dried on
it, besides the decanter and the wineglass from which he drank the night
before."

"Nothing more?"

"I remember nothing more."

"In regard to that decanter and glass," broke in the juryman of the
watch and chain, "did you not say that the latter was found in the
same condition in which you saw it at the time you left Mr. Leavenworth
sitting in his library?"

"Yes, sir, very much."

"Yet he was in the habit of drinking a full glass?"

"Yes, sir."

"An interruption must then have ensued very close upon your departure,
Mr. Harwell."

A cold bluish pallor suddenly broke out upon the young man's face. He
started, and for a moment looked as if struck by some horrible thought.
"That does not follow, sir," he articulated with some difficulty. "Mr.
Leavenworth might--" but suddenly stopped, as if too much distressed to
proceed.

"Go on, Mr. Harwell, let us hear what you have to say."

"There is nothing," he returned faintly, as if battling with some strong
emotion.

As he had not been answering a question, only volunteering an
explanation, the coroner let it pass; but I saw more than one pair of
eyes roll suspiciously from side to side, as if many there felt that
some sort of clue had been offered them in this man's emotion. The
coroner, ignoring in his easy way both the emotion and the universal
excitement it had produced, now proceeded to ask: "Do you know whether
the key to the library was in its place when you left the room last
night?"

"No, sir; I did not notice."

"The presumption is, it was?"

"I suppose so."

"At all events, the door was locked in the morning, and the key gone?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then whoever committed this murder locked the door on passing out, and
took away the key?"

"It would seem so."

The coroner turning, faced the jury with an earnest look. "Gentlemen,"
said he, "there seems to be a mystery in regard to this key which must
be looked into."

Immediately a universal murmur swept through the room, testifying to the
acquiescence of all present. The little juryman hastily rising proposed
that an instant search should be made for it; but the coroner, turning
upon him with what I should denominate as a quelling look, decided
that the inquest should proceed in the usual manner, till the verbal
testimony was all in.

"Then allow me to ask a question," again volunteered the irrepressible.
"Mr. Harwell, we are told that upon the breaking in of the library door
this morning, Mr. Leavenworth's two nieces followed you into the room."

"One of them, sir, Miss Eleanore."

"Is Miss Eleanore the one who is said to be Mr. Leavenworth's sole
heiress?" the coroner here interposed.

"No, sir, that is Miss Mary."

"That she gave orders," pursued the juryman, "for the removal of the
body into the further room?"

"Yes, sir."

"And that you obeyed her by helping to carry it in?"

"Yes, sir."

"Now, in thus passing through the rooms, did you observe anything to
lead you to form a suspicion of the murderer?"

The secretary shook his head. "I have no suspicion," he emphatically
said.

Somehow, I did not believe him. Whether it was the tone of his voice,
the clutch of his hand on his sleeve--and the hand will often reveal
more than the countenance--I felt that this man was not to be relied
upon in making this assertion.

"I should like to ask Mr. Harwell a question," said a juryman who had
not yet spoken. "We have had a detailed account of what looks like the
discovery of a murdered man. Now, murder is never committed without some
motive. Does the secretary know whether Mr. Leavenworth had any secret
enemy?"

"I do not."

"Every one in the house seemed to be on good terms with him?"

"Yes, sir," with a little quaver of dissent in the assertion, however.

"Not a shadow lay between him and any other member of his household, so
far as you know?"

"I am not ready to say that," he returned, quite distressed. "A shadow
is a very slight thing. There might have been a shadow----"

"Between him and whom?"

A long hesitation. "One of his nieces, sir."

"Which one?"

Again that defiant lift of the head. "Miss Eleanore."

"How long has this shadow been observable?"

"I cannot say."

"You do not know the cause?"

"I do not."

"Nor the extent of the feeling?"

"No, sir."

"You open Mr. Leavenworth's letters?"

"I do."

"Has there been anything in his correspondence of late calculated to
throw any light upon this deed?"

It actually seemed as if he never would answer. Was he simply pondering
over his reply, or was the man turned to stone?

"Mr. Harwell, did you hear the juryman?" inquired the coroner.

"Yes, sir; I was thinking."

"Very well, now answer."

"Sir," he replied, turning and looking the juryman full in the face, and
in that way revealing his unguarded left hand to my gaze, "I have opened
Mr. Leavenworth's letters as usual for the last two weeks, and I can
think of nothing in them bearing in the least upon this tragedy."

The man lied; I knew it instantly. The clenched hand pausing irresolute,
then making up its mind to go through with the lie firmly, was enough
for me.

"Mr. Harwell, this is undoubtedly true according to your judgment,"
said the coroner; "but Mr. Leavenworth's correspondence will have to be
searched for all that."

"Of course," he replied carelessly; "that is only right."

This remark ended Mr. Harwell's examination for the time. As he sat down
I made note of four things.

That Mr. Harwell himself, for some reason not given, was conscious of a
suspicion which he was anxious to suppress even from his own mind.

That a woman was in some way connected with it, a rustle as well as a
footstep having been heard by him on the stairs.

That a letter had arrived at the house, which if found would be likely
to throw some light upon this subject.

That Eleanore Leavenworth's name came with difficulty from his lips;
this evidently unimpressible man, manifesting more or less emotion
whenever he was called upon to utter it.



IV. A CLUE.


    "Something is rotten in the State of Denmark."
        Hamlet.

THE cook of the establishment being now called, that portly, ruddy-faced
individual stepped forward with alacrity, displaying upon her
good-humored countenance such an expression of mingled eagerness and
anxiety that more than one person present found it difficult to restrain
a smile at her appearance. Observing this and taking it as a compliment,
being a woman as well as a cook, she immediately dropped a curtsey,
and opening her lips was about to speak, when the coroner, rising
impatiently in his seat, took the word from her mouth by saying sternly:

"Your name?"

"Katherine Malone, sir."

"Well, Katherine, how long have you been in Mr. Leavenworth's service?"

"Shure, it is a good twelvemonth now, sir, since I came, on Mrs.
Wilson's ricommindation, to that very front door, and----"

"Never mind the front door, but tell us why you left this Mrs. Wilson?"

"Shure, and it was she as left me, being as she went sailing to the
ould country the same day when on her recommendation I came to this very
front door--"

"Well, well; no matter about that. You have been in Mr. Leavenworth's
family a year?"

"Yes, sir."

"And liked it? found him a good master?"

"Och, sir, niver have I found a better, worse luck to the villain as
killed him. He was that free and ginerous, sir, that many's the time I
killed him. He was that free and ginerous, sir, that many's the time
I have said to Hannah--" She stopped, with a sudden comical gasp of
terror, looking at her fellow-servants like one who had incautiously
made a slip. The coroner, observing this, inquired hastily,

"Hannah? Who is Hannah?"

The cook, drawing her roly-poly figure up into some sort of shape in
her efforts to appear unconcerned, exclaimed boldly: "She? Oh, only the
ladies' maid, sir."

"But I don't see any one here answering to that description. You didn't
speak of any one by the name of Hannah, as belonging to the house," said
he, turning to Thomas.

"No, sir," the latter replied, with a bow and a sidelong look at the
red-cheeked girl at his side. "You asked me who were in the house at the
time the murder was discovered, and I told you."

"Oh," cried the coroner, satirically; "used to police courts, I see."
Then, turning back to the cook, who had all this while been rolling
her eyes in a vague fright about the room, inquired, "And where is this
Hannah?"

"Shure, sir, she's gone."

"How long since?"

The cook caught her breath hysterically. "Since last night."

"What time last night?"

"Troth, sir, and I don't know. I don't know anything about it."

"Was she dismissed?"

"Not as I knows on; her clothes is here."

"Oh, her clothes are here. At what hour did you miss her?"

"I didn't miss her. She was here last night, and she isn't here this
morning, and so I says she 's gone."

"Humph!" cried the coroner, casting a slow glance down the room, while
every one present looked as if a door had suddenly opened in a closed
wall.

"Where did this girl sleep?"

The cook, who had been fumbling uneasily with her apron, looked up.

"Shure, we all sleeps at the top of the house, sir."

"In one room?"

Slowly. "Yes, sir."

"Did she come up to the room last night?"

"Yes, sir."

"At what hour?"

"Shure, it was ten when we all came up. I heard the clock a-striking."

"Did you observe anything unusual in her appearance?"

"She had a toothache, sir."

"Oh, a toothache; what, then? Tell me all she did."

But at this the cook broke into tears and wails.

"Shure, she didn't do nothing, sir. It wasn't her, sir, as did anything;
don't you believe it. Hannah is a good girl, and honest, sir, as ever
you see. I am ready to swear on the Book as how she never put her hand
to the lock of his door. What should she for? She only went down to Miss
Eleanore for some toothache-drops, her face was paining her that awful;
and oh, sir----"

"There, there," interrupted the coroner, "I am not accusing Hannah of
anything. I only asked you what she did after she reached your room. She
went downstairs, you say. How long after you went up?"

"Troth, sir, I couldn't tell; but Molly says----"

"Never mind what Molly says. _You_ didn't see her go down?"

"No, sir."

"Nor see her come back?"

"No, sir."

"Nor see her this morning?"

"No, sir; how could I when she 's gone?"

"But you did see, last night, that she seemed to be suffering with
toothache?"

"Yes, sir."

"Very well; now tell me how and when you first became acquainted with
the fact of Mr. Leavenworth's death."

But her replies to this question, while over-garrulous, contained but
little information; and seeing this, the coroner was on the point of
dismissing her, when the little juror, remembering an admission she had
made, of having seen Miss Eleanore Leavenworth coming out of the library
door a few minutes after Mr. Leavenworth's body had been carried into
the next room, asked if her mistress had anything in her hand at the
time.

"I don't know, sir. Faith!" she suddenly exclaimed, "I believe she
did have a piece of paper. I recollect, now, seeing her put it in her
pocket."

The next witness was Molly, the upstairs girl.

Molly O'Flanagan, as she called herself, was a rosy-cheeked,
black-haired, pert girl of about eighteen, who under ordinary
circumstances would have found herself able to answer, with a due degree
of smartness, any question which might have been addressed to her. But
fright will sometimes cower the stoutest heart, and Molly, standing
before the coroner at this juncture, presented anything but a reckless
appearance, her naturally rosy cheeks blanching at the first word
addressed to her, and her head falling forward on her breast in a
confusion too genuine to be dissembled and too transparent to be
misunderstood.

As her testimony related mostly to Hannah, and what she knew of her, and
her remarkable disappearance, I shall confine myself to a mere synopsis
of it.

As far as she, Molly, knew, Hannah was what she had given herself out
to be, an uneducated girl of Irish extraction, who had come from
the country to act as lady's-maid and seamstress to the two Misses
Leavenworth. She had been in the family for some time; before Molly
herself, in fact; and though by nature remarkably reticent, refusing to
tell anything about herself or her past life, she had managed to become
a great favorite with all in the house. But she was of a melancholy
nature and fond of brooding, often getting up nights to sit and think in
the dark: "as if she was a lady!" exclaimed Molly.

This habit being a singular one for a girl in her station, an attempt
was made to win from the witness further particulars in regard to
it. But Molly, with a toss of her head, confined herself to the one
statement. She used to get up nights and sit in the window, and that was
all she knew about it.

Drawn away from this topic, during the consideration of which, a little
of the sharpness of Molly's disposition had asserted itself, she went on
to state, in connection with the events of the past night, that Hannah
had been ill for two days or more with a swelled face; that it grew so
bad after they had gone upstairs, the night before, that she got out
of bed, and dressing herself--Molly was closely questioned here, but
insisted upon the fact that Hannah had fully dressed herself, even to
arranging her collar and ribbon--lighted a candle, and made known her
intention of going down to Miss Eleanore for aid.

"Why Miss Eleanore?" a juryman here asked.

"Oh, she is the one who always gives out medicines and such like to the
servants."

Urged to proceed, she went on to state that she had already told all she
knew about it. Hannah did not come back, nor was she to be found in the
house at breakfast time.

"You say she took a candle with her," said the coroner. "Was it in a
candlestick?"

"No, sir; loose like."

"Why did she take a candle? Does not Mr. Leavenworth burn gas in his
halls?"

"Yes, sir; but we put the gas out as we go up, and Hannah is afraid of
the dark."

"If she took a candle, it must be lying somewhere about the house. Now,
has anybody seen a stray candle?"

"Not as I knows on, sir."

"Is _this_ it?" exclaimed a voice over my shoulder.

It was Mr. Gryce, and he was holding up into view a half-burned
paraffine candle.

"Yes, sir; lor', where did you find it?"

"In the grass of the carriage yard, half-way from the kitchen door to
the street," he quietly returned.

Sensation. A clue, then, at last! Something had been found which seemed
to connect this mysterious murder with the outside world. Instantly the
backdoor assumed the chief position of interest. The candle found lying
in the yard seemed to prove, not only that Hannah had left the house
shortly after descending from her room, but had left it by the backdoor,
which we now remembered was only a few steps from the iron gate opening
into the side street. But Thomas, being recalled, repeated his assertion
that not only the back-door, but all the lower windows of the house,
had been found by him securely locked and bolted at six o'clock that
morning. Inevitable conclusion--some one had locked and bolted them
after the girl. Who? Alas, that had now become the very serious and
momentous question.



V. EXPERT TESTIMONY


     "And often-times, to win us to our harm,
      The instruments of darkness tell us truths;
      Win us with honest trifles, to betray us
      In deepest consequence."

     Macbeth.

IN the midst of the universal gloom thus awakened there came a sharp
ring at the bell. Instantly all eyes turned toward the parlor door,
just as it slowly opened, and the officer who had been sent off so
mysteriously by the coroner an hour before entered, in company with a
young man, whose sleek appearance, intelligent eye, and general air of
trustworthiness, seemed to proclaim him to be, what in fact he was, the
confidential clerk of a responsible mercantile house.

Advancing without apparent embarrassment, though each and every eye in
the room was fixed upon him with lively curiosity, he made a slight bow
to the coroner.

"You have sent for a man from Bohn & Co.," he said.

Strong and immediate excitement. Bohn & Co. was the well-known pistol
and ammunition store of ---- Broadway.

"Yes, sir," returned the coroner. "We have here a bullet, which we must
ask you to examine, You are fully acquainted with all matters connected
with your business?"

The young man, merely elevating an expressive eyebrow, took the bullet
carelessly in his hand.

"Can you tell us from what make of pistol that was delivered?"

The young man rolled it slowly round between his thumb and forefinger,
and then laid it down. "It is a No. 32 ball, usually sold with the small
pistol made by Smith & Wesson."

"A small pistol!" exclaimed the butler, jumping up from his seat.
"Master used to keep a little pistol in his stand drawer. I have often
seen it. We all knew about it."

Great and irrepressible excitement, especially among the servants.
"That's so!" I heard a heavy voice exclaim. "I saw it once
myself--master was cleaning it." It was the cook who spoke.

"In his stand drawer?" the coroner inquired.

"Yes, sir; at the head of his bed."

An officer was sent to examine the stand drawer. In a few moments he
returned, bringing a small pistol which he laid down on the coroner's
table, saying, "Here it is."

Immediately, every one sprang to his feet, but the coroner, handing
it over to the clerk from Bonn's, inquired if that was the make before
mentioned. Without hesitation he replied, "Yes, Smith & Wesson; you can
see for yourself," and he proceeded to examine it.

"Where did you find this pistol?" asked the coroner of the officer.

"In the top drawer of a shaving table standing near the head of Mr.
Leavenworth's bed. It was lying in a velvet case together with a box
of cartridges, one of which I bring as a sample," and he laid it down
beside the bullet.

"Was the drawer locked?"

"Yes, sir; but the key was not taken out."

Interest had now reached its climax. A universal cry swept through the
room, "Is it loaded?"

The coroner, frowning on the assembly, with a look of great dignity,
remarked:

"I was about to ask that question myself, but first I must request
order."

An immediate calm followed. Every one was too much interested to
interpose any obstacle in the way of gratifying his curiosity.

"Now, sir!" exclaimed the coroner.

The clerk from Bonn's, taking out the cylinder, held it up. "There are
seven chambers here, and they are all loaded."

A murmur of disappointment followed this assertion.

"But," he quietly added after a momentary examination of the face of
the cylinder, "they have not all been loaded long. A bullet has been
recently shot from one of these chambers."

"How do you know?" cried one of the jury.

"How do I know? Sir," said he, turning to the coroner, "will you be kind
enough to examine the condition of this pistol?" and he handed it over
to that gentleman. "Look first at the barrel; it is clean and bright,
and shows no evidence of a bullet having passed out of it very lately;
that is because it has been cleaned. But now, observe the face of the
cylinder: what do you see there?"

"I see a faint line of smut near one of the chambers."

"Just so; show it to the gentlemen."

It was immediately handed down.

"That faint line of smut, on the edge of one of the chambers, is the
telltale, sirs. A bullet passing out always leaves smut behind. The man
who fired this, remembering the fact, cleaned the barrel, but forgot the
cylinder." And stepping aside he folded his arms.

"Jerusalem!" spoke out a rough, hearty voice, "isn't that wonderful!"
This exclamation came from a countryman who had stepped in from the
street, and now stood agape in the doorway.

It was a rude but not altogether unwelcome interruption. A smile passed
round the room, and both men and women breathed more easily. Order being
at last restored, the officer was requested to describe the position of
the stand, and its distance from the library table.

"The library table is in one room, and the stand in another. To
reach the former from the latter, one would be obliged to cross
Mr. Leavenworth's bedroom in a diagonal direction, pass through the
passageway separating that one apartment from the other, and----"

"Wait a moment; how does this table stand in regard to the door which
leads from the bedroom into the hall?"

"One might enter that door, pass directly round the foot of the bed
to the stand, procure the pistol, and cross half-way over to the
passage-way, without being seen by any one sitting or standing in the
library beyond."

"Holy Virgin!" exclaimed the horrified cook, throwing her apron over her
head as if to shut out some dreadful vision. "Hannah niver would have
the pluck for that; niver, niver!" But Mr. Gryce, laying a heavy hand on
the woman, forced her back into her seat, reproving and calming her
at the same time, with a dexterity marvellous to behold. "I beg your
pardons," she cried deprecatingly to those around; "but it niver was
Hannah, niver!"

The clerk from Bohn's here being dismissed, those assembled took the
opportunity of making some change in their position, after which, the
name of Mr. Harwell was again called. That person rose with manifest
reluctance. Evidently the preceding testimony had either upset some
theory of his, or indubitably strengthened some unwelcome suspicion.

"Mr. Harwell," the coroner began, "we are told of the existence of a
pistol belonging to Mr. Leavenworth, and upon searching, we discover it
in his room. Did you know of his possessing such an instrument?"

"I did."

"Was it a fact generally known in the house?"

"So it would seem."

"How was that? Was he in the habit of leaving it around where any one
could see it?"

"I cannot say; I can only acquaint you with the manner in which I myself
became aware of its existence."

"Very well, do so."

"We were once talking about firearms. I have some taste that way, and
have always been anxious to possess a pocket-pistol. Saying something
of the kind to him one day, he rose from his seat and, fetching me this,
showed it to me."

"How long ago was this?"

"Some few months since."

"He has owned this pistol, then, for some time?"

"Yes, sir."

"Is that the only occasion upon which you have ever seen it?"

"No, sir,"--the secretary blushed--"I have seen it once since."

"When?"

"About three weeks ago."

"Under what circumstances?"

The secretary dropped his head, a certain drawn look making itself
suddenly visible on his countenance.

"Will you not excuse me, gentlemen?" he asked, after a moment's
hesitation.

"It is impossible," returned the coroner.

His face grew even more pallid and deprecatory. "I am obliged to
introduce the name of a lady," he hesitatingly declared.

"We are very sorry," remarked the coroner.

The young man turned fiercely upon him, and I could not help wondering
that I had ever thought him commonplace. "Of Miss Eleanore Leavenworth!"
he cried.

At that name, so uttered, every one started but Mr. Gryce; he was
engaged in holding a close and confidential confab with his finger-tips,
and did not appear to notice.

"Surely it is contrary to the rules of decorum and the respect we all
feel for the lady herself to introduce her name into this discussion,"
continued Mr. Harwell. But the coroner still insisting upon an answer,
he refolded his arms (a movement indicative of resolution with him), and
began in a low, forced tone to say:

"It is only this, gentlemen. One afternoon, about three weeks since, I
had occasion to go to the library at an unusual hour. Crossing over to
the mantel-piece for the purpose of procuring a penknife which I had
carelessly left there in the morning, I heard a noise in the adjoining
room. Knowing that Mr. Leavenworth was out, and supposing the ladies to
be out also, I took the liberty of ascertaining who the intruder was;
when what was my astonishment to come upon Miss Eleanore Leavenworth,
standing at the side of her uncle's bed, with his pistol in her hand.
Confused at my indiscretion, I attempted to escape without being
observed; but in vain, for just as I was crossing the threshold, she
turned and, calling me by name, requested me to explain the pistol to
her. Gentlemen, in order to do so, I was obliged to take it in my hand;
and that, sirs, is the only other occasion upon which I ever saw or
handled the pistol of Mr. Leavenworth." Drooping his head, he waited in
indescribable agitation for the next question.

"She asked you to explain the pistol to her; what do you mean by that?"

"I mean," he faintly continued, catching his breath in a vain effort to
appear calm, "how to load, aim, and fire it."

A flash of awakened feeling shot across the faces of all present. Even
the coroner showed sudden signs of emotion, and sat staring at the bowed
form and pale countenance of the man before him, with a peculiar look of
surprised compassion, which could not fail of producing its effect, not
only upon the young man himself, but upon all who saw him.

"Mr. Harwell," he at length inquired, "have you anything to add to the
statement you have just made?"

The secretary sadly shook his head.

"Mr. Gryce," I here whispered, clutching that person by the arm and
dragging him down to my side; "assure me, I entreat you--" but he would
not let me finish.

"The coroner is about to ask for the young ladies," he quickly
interposed. "If you desire to fulfil your duty towards them, be ready,
that's all."

Fulfil my duty! The simple words recalled me to myself. What had I been
thinking of; was I mad? With nothing more terrible in mind than a tender
picture of the lovely cousins bowed in anguish over the remains of one
who had been as dear as a father to them, I slowly rose, and upon demand
being made for Miss Mary and Miss Eleanore Leavenworth, advanced and
said that, as a friend of the family--a petty lie, which I hope will not
be laid up against me--I begged the privilege of going for the ladies
and escorting them down.

Instantly a dozen eyes flashed upon me, and I experienced the
embarrassment of one who, by some unexpected word or action, has drawn
upon himself the concentrated attention of a whole room.

But the permission sought being almost immediately accorded, I was
speedily enabled to withdraw from my rather trying position, finding
myself, almost before I knew it, in the hall, my face aflame, my heart
beating with excitement, and these words of Mr. Gryce ringing in my
ears: "Third floor, rear room, first door at the head of the stairs. You
will find the young ladies expecting you."



VI. SIDE-LIGHTS


    "Oh! she has beauty might ensnare
    A conqueror's soul, and make him leave his crown
    At random, to be scuffled for by slaves."

        OTWAY.

THIRD floor, rear room, first door at the head of the stairs! What was I
about to encounter there?

Mounting the lower flight, and shuddering by the library wall, which to
my troubled fancy seemed written all over with horrible suggestions, I
took my way slowly up-stairs, revolving in my mind many things, among
which an admonition uttered long ago by my mother occupied a prominent
place.

"My son, remember that a woman with a secret may be a fascinating study,
but she can never be a safe, nor even satisfactory, companion."

A wise saw, no doubt, but totally inapplicable to the present situation;
yet it continued to haunt me till the sight of the door to which I had
been directed put every other thought to flight save that I was about to
meet the stricken nieces of a brutally murdered man.

Pausing only long enough on the threshold to compose myself for the
interview, I lifted my hand to knock, when a rich, clear voice rose from
within, and I heard distinctly uttered these astounding words: "I do not
accuse your hand, though I know of none other which would or could have
done this deed; but your heart, your head, your will, these I do and
must accuse, in my secret mind at least; and it is well that you should
know it!"

Struck with horror, I staggered back, my hands to my ears, when a touch
fell on my arm, and turning, I saw Mr. Gryce standing close beside me,
with his finger on his lip, and the last flickering shadow of a flying
emotion fading from his steady, almost compassionate countenance.

"Come, come," he exclaimed; "I see you don't begin to know what kind
of a world you are living in. Rouse yourself; remember they are waiting
down below."

"But who is it? Who was it that spoke?"

"That we shall soon see." And without waiting to meet, much less answer,
my appealing look, he struck his hand against the door, and flung it
wide open.

Instantly a flush of lovely color burst upon us. Blue curtains, blue
carpets, blue walls. It was like a glimpse of heavenly azure in a spot
where only darkness and gloom were to be expected. Fascinated by the
sight, I stepped impetuously forward, but instantly paused again,
overcome and impressed by the exquisite picture I saw before me.

Seated in an easy chair of embroidered satin, but rousing from her
half-recumbent position, like one who was in the act of launching a
powerful invective, I beheld a glorious woman. Fair, frail, proud,
delicate; looking like a lily in the thick creamy-tinted wrapper that
alternately clung to and swayed from her finely moulded figure; with her
forehead, crowned with the palest of pale tresses, lifted and flashing
with power; one quivering hand clasping the arm of her chair, the other
outstretched and pointing toward some distant object in the room,--her
whole appearance was so startling, so extraordinary, that I held my
breath in surprise, actually for the moment doubting if it were a living
woman I beheld, or some famous pythoness conjured up from ancient story,
to express in one tremendous gesture the supreme indignation of outraged
womanhood.

"Miss Mary Leavenworth," whispered that ever present voice over my
shoulder.

Ah! Mary Leavenworth! What a relief came with this name. This beautiful
creature, then, was not the Eleanore who could load, aim, and fire a
pistol. Turning my head, I followed the guiding of that uplifted
hand, now frozen into its place by a new emotion: the emotion of being
interrupted in the midst of a direful and pregnant revelation, and
saw--but, no, here description fails me! Eleanore Leavenworth must be
painted by other hands than mine. I could sit half the day and dilate
upon the subtle grace, the pale magnificence, the perfection of form and
feature which make Mary Leavenworth the wonder of all who behold her;
but Eleanore--I could as soon paint the beatings of my own heart.
Beguiling, terrible, grand, pathetic, that face of faces flashed upon my
gaze, and instantly the moonlight loveliness of her cousin faded from
my memory, and I saw only Eleanore--only Eleanore from that moment on
forever.

When my glance first fell upon her, she was standing by the side of a
small table, with her face turned toward her cousin, and her two hands
resting, the one upon her breast, the other on the table, in an attitude
of antagonism. But before the sudden pang which shot through me at the
sight of her beauty had subsided, her head had turned, her gaze had
encountered mine; all the horror of the situation had burst upon her,
and, instead of a haughty woman, drawn up to receive and trample upon
the insinuations of another, I beheld, alas! a trembling, panting human
creature, conscious that a sword hung above her head, and without a word
to say why it should not fall and slay her.

It was a pitiable change; a heart-rending revelation! I turned from
it as from a confession. But just then, her cousin, who had apparently
regained her self-possession at the first betrayal of emotion on the
part of the other, stepped forward and, holding out her hand, inquired:

"Is not this Mr. Raymond? How kind of you, sir. And you?" turning to Mr.
Gryce; "you have come to tell us we are wanted below, is it not so?"

It was the voice I had heard through the door, but modulated to a sweet,
winning, almost caressing tone.

Glancing hastily at Mr. Gryce, I looked to see how he was affected by
it. Evidently much, for the bow with which he greeted her words was
lower than ordinary, and the smile with which he met her earnest look
both deprecatory and reassuring. His glance did not embrace her cousin,
though her eyes were fixed upon his face with an inquiry in their depths
more agonizing than the utterance of any cry would have been. Knowing
Mr. Gryce as I did, I felt that nothing could promise worse, or be more
significant, than this transparent disregard of one who seemed to fill
the room with her terror. And, struck with pity, I forgot that Mary
Leavenworth had spoken, forgot her very presence in fact, and, turning
hastily away, took one step toward her cousin, when Mr. Gryce's hand
falling on my arm stopped me.

"Miss Leavenworth speaks," said he.

Recalled to myself, I turned my back upon what had so interested me even
while it repelled, and forcing myself to make some sort of reply to the
fair creature before me, offered my arm and led her toward the door.

Immediately the pale, proud countenance of Mary Leavenworth softened
almost to the point of smiling;--and here let me say, there never was a
woman who could smile and not smile like Mary Leavenworth. Looking in my
face, with a frank and sweet appeal in her eyes, she murmured:

"You are very good. I do feel the need of support; the occasion is so
horrible, and my cousin there,"--here a little gleam of alarm nickered
into her eyes--"is so very strange to-day."

"Humph!" thought I to myself; "where is the grand indignant pythoness,
with the unspeakable wrath and menace in her countenance, whom I saw
when I first entered the room?" Could it be that she was trying
to beguile us from our conjectures, by making light of her former
expressions? Or was it possible she deceived herself so far as to
believe us unimpressed by the weighty accusation overheard by us at a
moment so critical?

But Eleanore Leavenworth, leaning on the arm of the detective,
soon absorbed all my attention. She had regained by this time her
self-possession, also, but not so entirely as her cousin. Her step
faltered as she endeavored to walk, and the hand which rested on his
arm trembled like a leaf. "Would to God I had never entered this house,"
said I to myself. And yet, before the exclamation was half uttered, I
became conscious of a secret rebellion against the thought; an emotion,
shall I say, of thankfulness that it had been myself rather than another
who had been allowed to break in upon their privacy, overhear that
significant remark, and, shall I acknowledge it, follow Mr. Gryce and
the trembling, swaying figure of Eleanore Leavenworth down-stairs. Not
that I felt the least relenting in my soul towards guilt. Crime had
never looked so black; revenge, selfishness, hatred, cupidity, never
seemed more loathsome; and yet--but why enter into the consideration of
my feelings at that time. They cannot be of interest; besides, who can
fathom the depths of his own soul, or untangle for others the secret
cords of revulsion and attraction which are, and ever have been, a
mystery and wonder to himself? Enough that, supporting upon my arm the
half-fainting form of one woman, but with my attention, and interest
devoted to another, I descended the stairs of the Leavenworth mansion,
and re-entered the dreaded presence of those inquisitors of the law who
had been so impatiently awaiting us.

As I once more crossed that threshold, and faced the eager countenances
of those I had left so short a time before, I felt as if ages had
elapsed in the interval; so much can be experienced by the human soul in
the short space of a few over-weighted moments.



VII. MARY LEAVENWORTH


    "For this relief much thanks."
        Hamlet.

HAVE you ever observed the effect of the sunlight bursting suddenly upon
the earth from behind a mass of heavily surcharged clouds? If so,
you can have some idea of the sensation produced in that room by the
entrance of these two beautiful ladies. Possessed of a loveliness which
would have been conspicuous in all places and under all circumstances,
Mary, at least, if not her less striking, though by no means less
interesting cousin, could never have entered any assemblage without
drawing to herself the wondering attention of all present. But, heralded
as here, by the most fearful of tragedies, what could you expect from
a collection of men such as I have already described, but overmastering
wonder and incredulous admiration? Nothing, perhaps, and yet at the
first murmuring sound of amazement and satisfaction, I felt my soul
recoil in disgust.

Making haste to seat my now trembling companion in the most retired spot
I could find, I looked around for her cousin. But Eleanore Leavenworth,
weak as she had appeared in the interview above, showed at this moment
neither hesitation nor embarrassment. Advancing upon the arm of the
detective, whose suddenly assumed air of persuasion in the presence of
the jury was anything but reassuring, she stood for an instant gazing
calmly upon the scene before her. Then bowing to the coroner with a
grace and condescension which seemed at once to place him on the footing
of a politely endured intruder in this home of elegance, she took the
seat which her own servants hastened to procure for her, with an ease
and dignity that rather recalled the triumphs of the drawing-room
than the self-consciousness of a scene such as that in which we found
ourselves. Palpable acting, though this was, it was not without its
effect. Instantly the murmurs ceased, the obtrusive glances fell,
and something like a forced respect made itself visible upon the
countenances of all present. Even I, impressed as I had been by her very
different demeanor in the room above, experienced a sensation of relief;
and was more than startled when, upon turning to the lady at my side, I
beheld her eyes riveted upon her cousin with an inquiry in their depths
that was anything but encouraging. Fearful of the effect this look might
have upon those about us, I hastily seized her hand which, clenched and
unconscious, hung over the edge of her chair, and was about to beseech
her to have care, when her name, called in a slow, impressive way by the
coroner, roused her from her abstraction. Hurriedly withdrawing her gaze
from her cousin, she lifted her face to the jury, and I saw a gleam
pass over it which brought back my early fancy of the pythoness. But
it passed, and it was with an expression of great modesty she settled
herself to respond to the demand of the coroner and answer the first few
opening inquiries.

But what can express the anxiety of that moment to me? Gentle as she now
appeared, she was capable of great wrath, as I knew. Was she going to
reiterate her suspicions here? Did she hate as well as mistrust her
cousin? Would she dare assert in this presence, and before the world,
what she found it so easy to utter in the privacy of her own room
and the hearing of the one person concerned? Did she wish to? Her own
countenance gave me no clue to her intentions, and, in my anxiety,
I turned once more to look at Eleanore. But she, in a dread and
apprehension I could easily understand, had recoiled at the first
intimation that her cousin was to speak, and now sat with her face
covered from sight, by hands blanched to an almost deathly whiteness.

The testimony of Mary Leavenworth was short. After some few questions,
mostly referring to her position in the house and her connection with
its deceased master, she was asked to relate what she knew of the murder
itself, and of its discovery by her cousin and the servants.

Lifting up a brow that seemed never to have known till now the shadow of
care or trouble, and a voice that, whilst low and womanly, rang like a
bell through the room, she replied:

"You ask me, gentlemen, a question which I cannot answer of my own
personal knowledge. I know nothing of this murder, nor of its discovery,
save what has come to me through the lips of others."

My heart gave a bound of relief, and I saw Eleanore Leavenworth's hands
drop from her brow like stone, while a flickering gleam as of hope fled
over her face, and then died away like sunlight leaving marble.

"For, strange as it may seem to you," Mary earnestly continued, the
shadow of a past horror revisiting her countenance, "I did not enter
the room where my uncle lay. I did not even think of doing so; my only
impulse was to fly from what was so horrible and heartrending. But
Eleanore went in, and she can tell you----"

"We will question Miss Eleanore Leavenworth later," interrupted the
coroner, but very gently for him. Evidently the grace and elegance of
this beautiful woman were making their impression. "What we want to know
is what _you_ saw. You say you cannot tell us of anything that passed in
the room at the time of the discovery?"

"No, sir."

"Only what occurred in the hall?"

"Nothing occurred in the hall," she innocently remarked.

"Did not the servants pass in from the hall, and your cousin come out
there after her revival from her fainting fit?"

Mary Leavenworth's violet eyes opened wonderingly.

"Yes, sir; but that was nothing."

"You remember, however, her coming into the hall?"

"Yes, sir."

"With a paper in her hand?"

"Paper?" and she wheeled suddenly and looked at her cousin. "Did you
have a paper, Eleanore?"

The moment was intense. Eleanore Leavenworth, who at the first mention
of the word paper had started perceptibly, rose to her feet at this
naive appeal, and opening her lips, seemed about to speak, when the
coroner, with a strict sense of what was regular, lifted his hand with
decision, and said:

"You need not ask your cousin, Miss; but let us hear what you have to
say yourself."

Immediately, Eleanore Leavenworth sank back, a pink spot breaking out on
either cheek; while a slight murmur testified to the disappointment
of those in the room, who were more anxious to have their curiosity
gratified than the forms of law adhered to.

Satisfied with having done his duty, and disposed to be easy with so
charming a witness, the coroner repeated his question. "Tell us, if you
please, if you saw any such thing in her hand?"

"I? Oh, no, no; I saw nothing."

Being now questioned in relation to the events of the previous night,
she had no new light to throw upon the subject. She acknowledged her
uncle to have been a little reserved at dinner, but no more so than at
previous times when annoyed by some business anxiety.

Asked if she had seen her uncle again that evening, she said no, that
she had been detained in her room. That the sight of him, sitting in his
seat at the head of the table, was the very last remembrance she had of
him.

There was something so touching, so forlorn, and yet so unobtrusive, in
this simple recollection of hers, that a look of sympathy passed slowly
around the room.

I even detected Mr. Gryce softening towards the inkstand. But Eleanore
Leavenworth sat unmoved.

"Was your uncle on ill terms with any one?" was now asked. "Had he
valuable papers or secret sums of money in his possession?"

To all these inquiries she returned an equal negative.

"Has your uncle met any stranger lately, or received any important
letter during the last few weeks, which might seem in any way to throw
light upon this mystery?"

There was the slightest perceptible hesitation in her voice, as she
replied: "No, not to my knowledge; I don't know of any such." But here,
stealing a side glance at Eleanore, she evidently saw something that
reassured her, for she hastened to add:

"I believe I may go further than that, and meet your question with a
positive no. My uncle was in the habit of confiding in me, and I should
have known if anything of importance to him had occurred."

Questioned in regard to Hannah, she gave that person the best of
characters; knew of nothing which could have led either to her strange
disappearance, or to her connection with crime. Could not say whether
she kept any company, or had any visitors; only knew that no one with
any such pretensions came to the house. Finally, when asked when she
had last seen the pistol which Mr. Leavenworth always kept in his stand
drawer, she returned, not since the day he bought it; Eleanore, and not
herself, having the charge of her uncle's apartments.

It was the only thing she had said which, even to a mind freighted like
mine, would seem to point to any private doubt or secret suspicion; and
this, uttered in the careless manner in which it was, would have passed
without comment if Eleanore herself had not directed at that moment a
very much aroused and inquiring look upon the speaker.

But it was time for the inquisitive juror to make himself heard again.
Edging to the brink of the chair, he drew in his breath, with a vague
awe of Mary's beauty, almost ludicrous to see, and asked if she had
properly considered what she had just said.

"I hope, sir, I consider all I am called upon to say at such a time as
this," was her earnest reply.

The little juror drew back, and I looked to see her examination
terminate, when suddenly his ponderous colleague of the watch-chain,
catching the young lady's eye, inquired:

"Miss Leavenworth, did your uncle ever make a will?"

Instantly every man in the room was in arms, and even she could not
prevent the slow blush of injured pride from springing to her cheek. But
her answer was given firmly, and without any show of resentment.

"Yes, sir," she returned simply.

"More than one?"

"I never heard of but one."

"Are you acquainted with the contents of that will?"

"I am. He made no secret of his intentions to any one."

The juryman lifted his eye-glass and looked at her. Her grace was little
to him, or her beauty or her elegance. "Perhaps, then, you can tell me
who is the one most likely to be benefited by his death?"

The brutality of this question was too marked to pass unchallenged.
Not a man in that room, myself included, but frowned with sudden
disapprobation. But Mary Leavenworth, drawing herself up, looked her
interlocutor calmly in the face, and restrained herself to say:

"I know who would be the greatest losers by it. The children he took to
his bosom in their helplessness and sorrow; the young girls he enshrined
with the halo of his love and protection, when love and protection were
what their immaturity most demanded; the women who looked to him for
guidance when childhood and youth were passed--these, sir, these are
the ones to whom his death is a loss, in comparison to which all others
which may hereafter befall them must ever seem trivial and unimportant."

It was a noble reply to the basest of insinuations, and the juryman drew
back rebuked; but here another of them, one who had not spoken before,
but whose appearance was not only superior to the rest, but also almost
imposing in its gravity, leaned from his seat and in a solemn voice
said:

"Miss Leavenworth, the human mind cannot help forming impressions.
Now have you, with or without reason, felt at any time conscious of
a suspicion pointing towards any one person as the murderer of your
uncle?"

It was a frightful moment. To me and to one other, I am sure it was
not only frightful, but agonizing. Would her courage fail? would her
determination to shield her cousin remain firm in the face of duty and
at the call of probity? I dared not hope it.

But Mary Leavenworth, rising to her feet, looked judge and jury calmly
in the face, and, without raising her voice, giving it an indescribably
clear and sharp intonation, replied:

"No; I have neither suspicion nor reason for any. The assassin of my
uncle is not only entirely unknown to, but completely unsuspected by,
me."

It was like the removal of a stifling pressure. Amid a universal
outgoing of the breath, Mary Leavenworth stood aside and Eleanore was
called in her place.



VIII. CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE


    "O dark, dark, dark!"

AND now that the interest was at its height, that the veil which
shrouded this horrible tragedy seemed about to be lifted, if not
entirely withdrawn, I felt a desire to fly the scene, to leave the spot,
to know no more. Not that I was conscious of any particular fear of
this woman betraying herself. The cold steadiness of her now fixed and
impassive countenance was sufficient warranty in itself against the
possibility of any such catastrophe. But if, indeed, the suspicions of
her cousin were the offspring, not only of hatred, but of knowledge; if
that face of beauty was in truth only a mask, and Eleanore Leavenworth
was what the words of her cousin, and her own after behavior would seem
to imply, how could I bear to sit there and see the frightful serpent of
deceit and sin evolve itself from the bosom of this white rose! And yet,
such is the fascination of uncertainty that, although I saw something
of my own feelings reflected in the countenances of many about me, not a
man in all that assemblage showed any disposition to depart, I least of
all.

The coroner, upon whom the blonde loveliness of Mary had impressed
itself to Eleanor's apparent detriment, was the only one in the room
who showed himself unaffected at this moment. Turning toward the witness
with a look which, while respectful, had a touch of austerity in it, he
began:

"You have been an intimate of Mr. Leavenworth's family from childhood,
they tell me, Miss Leavenworth?"

"From my tenth year," was her quiet reply.

It was the first time I had heard her voice, and it surprised me; it
was so like, and yet so unlike, that of her cousin. Similar in tone, it
lacked its expressiveness, if I may so speak; sounding without vibration
on the ear, and ceasing without an echo.

"Since that time you have been treated like a daughter, they tell me?"

"Yes, sir, like a daughter, indeed; he was more than a father to both of
us."

"You and Miss Mary Leavenworth are cousins, I believe. When did she
enter the family?"

"At the same time I did. Our respective parents were victims of the same
disaster. If it had not been for our uncle, we should have been thrown,
children as we were, upon the world. But he"--here she paused, her
firm lips breaking into a half tremble--"but he, in the goodness of his
heart, adopted us into his family, and gave us what we had both lost, a
father and a home."

"You say he was a father to you as well as to your cousin--that he
adopted you. Do you mean by that, that he not only surrounded you with
present luxury, but gave you to understand that the same should be
secured to you after his death; in short, that he intended to leave any
portion of his property to you?"

"No, sir; I was given to understand, from the first, that his property
would be bequeathed by will to my cousin."

"Your cousin was no more nearly related to him than yourself, Miss
Leavenworth; did he never give you any reason for this evident
partiality?"

"None but his pleasure, sir."

Her answers up to this point had been so straightforward and
satisfactory that a gradual confidence seemed to be taking the place
of the rather uneasy doubts which had from the first circled about this
woman's name and person. But at this admission, uttered as it was in
a calm, unimpassioned voice, not only the jury, but myself, who had so
much truer reason for distrusting her, felt that actual suspicion in her
case must be very much shaken before the utter lack of motive which this
reply so clearly betokened.

Meanwhile the coroner continued: "If your uncle was as kind to you as
you say, you must have become very much attached to him?"

"Yes, sir," her mouth taking a sudden determined curve.

"His death, then, must have been a great shock to you?"

"Very, very great."

"Enough of itself to make you faint away, as they tell me you did, at
the first glimpse you had of his body?"

"Enough, quite."

"And yet you seemed to be prepared for it?"

"Prepared?"

"The servants say you were much agitated at finding your uncle did not
make his appearance at the breakfast table."

"The servants!" her tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of her mouth;
she could hardly speak.

"That when you returned from his room you were very pale."

Was she beginning to realize that there was some doubt, if not actual
suspicion, in the mind of the man who could assail her with questions
like these? I had not seen her so agitated since that one memorable
instant up in her room. But her mistrust, if she felt any, did not long
betray itself. Calming herself by a great effort, she replied, with a
quiet gesture--

"That is not so strange. My uncle was a very methodical man; the least
change in his habits would be likely to awaken our apprehensions."

"You were alarmed, then?"

"To a certain extent I was."

"Miss Leavenworth, who is in the habit of overseeing the regulation of
your uncle's private apartments?"

"I am, sir."

"You are doubtless, then, acquainted with a certain stand in his room
containing a drawer?"

"Yes, sir."

"How long is it since you had occasion to go to this drawer?"

"Yesterday," visibly trembling at the admission.

"At what time?"

"Near noon, I should judge."

"Was the pistol he was accustomed to keep there in its place at the
time?"

"I presume so; I did not observe."

"Did you turn the key upon closing the drawer?"

"I did."

"Take it out?"

"No, sir."

"Miss Leavenworth, that pistol, as you have perhaps observed, lies on
the table before you. Will you look at it?" And lifting it up into view,
he held it towards her.

If he had meant to startle her by the sudden action, he amply succeeded.
At the first sight of the murderous weapon she shrank back, and a
horrified, but quickly suppressed shriek, burst from her lips. "Oh, no,
no!" she moaned, flinging out her hands before her.

"I must insist upon your looking at it, Miss Leavenworth," pursued the
coroner. "When it was found just now, all the chambers were loaded."

Instantly the agonized look left her countenance. "Oh, then--" She did
not finish, but put out her hand for the weapon.

But the coroner, looking at her steadily, continued: "It has been lately
fired off, for all that. The hand that cleaned the barrel forgot the
cartridge-chamber, Miss Leavenworth."

She did not shriek again, but a hopeless, helpless look slowly settled
over her face, and she seemed about to sink; but like a flash the
reaction came, and lifting her head with a steady, grand action I have
never seen equalled, she exclaimed, "Very well, what then?"

The coroner laid the pistol down; men and women glanced at each other;
every one seemed to hesitate to proceed. I heard a tremulous sigh at my
side, and, turning, beheld Mary Leavenworth staring at her cousin with
a startled flush on her cheek, as if she began to recognize that the
public, as well as herself, detected something in this woman, calling
for explanation.

At last the coroner summoned up courage to continue.

"You ask me, Miss Leavenworth, upon the evidence given, what then? Your
question obliges me to say that no burglar, no hired assassin, would
have used this pistol for a murderous purpose, and then taken the pains,
not only to clean it, but to reload it, and lock it up again in the
drawer from which he had taken it."

She did not reply to this; but I saw Mr. Gryce make a note of it with
that peculiar emphatic nod of his.

"Nor," he went on, even more gravely, "would it be possible for any one
who was not accustomed to pass in and out of Mr. Leavenworth's room at
all hours, to enter his door so late at night, procure this pistol from
its place of concealment, traverse his apartment, and advance as closely
upon him as the facts show to have been necessary, without causing him
at least to turn his head to one side; which, in consideration of the
doctor's testimony, we cannot believe he did."

It was a frightful suggestion, and we looked to see Eleanore Leavenworth
recoil. But that expression of outraged feeling was left for her cousin
to exhibit. Starting indignantly from her seat, Mary cast one hurried
glance around her, and opened her lips to speak; but Eleanore, slightly
turning, motioned her to have patience, and replied in a cold and
calculating voice: "You are not sure, sir, that this _was_ done. If my
uncle, for some purpose of his own, had fired the pistol off yesterday,
let us say--which is surely possible, if not probable--the like results
would be observed, and the same conclusions drawn."

"Miss Leavenworth," the coroner went on, "the ball has been extracted
from your uncle's head!"

"Ah!"

"It corresponds with those in the cartridges found in his stand drawer,
and is of the number used with this pistol."

Her head fell forward on her hands; her eyes sought the floor; her whole
attitude expressed disheartenment. Seeing it, the coroner grew still
more grave.

"Miss Leavenworth," said he, "I have now some questions to put you
concerning last night. Where did you spend the evening?"

"Alone, in my own room."

"You, however, saw your uncle or your cousin during the course of it?"

"No, sir; I saw no one after leaving the dinner table--except Thomas,"
she added, after a moment's pause.

"And how came you to see him?"

"He came to bring me the card of a gentleman who called."

"May I ask the name of the gentleman?"

"The name on the card was Mr. Le Roy Robbins."

The matter seemed trivial; but the sudden start given by the lady at my
side made me remember it.

"Miss Leavenworth, when seated in your room, are you in the habit of
leaving your door open?"

A startled look at this, quickly suppressed. "Not in the habit; no,
sir."

"Why did you leave it open last night?"

"I was feeling warm."

"No other reason?"

"I can give no other."

"When did you close it?"

"Upon retiring."

"Was that before or after the servants went up?"

"After."

"Did you hear Mr. Harwell when he left the library and ascended to his
room?"

"I did, sir."

"How much longer did you leave your door open after that?"

"I--I--a few minutes--a--I cannot say," she added, hurriedly.

"Cannot say? Why? Do you forget?"

"I forget just how long after Mr. Harwell came up I closed it."

"Was it more than ten minutes?"

"Yes."

"More than twenty?"

"Perhaps." How pale her face was, and how she trembled!

"Miss Leavenworth, according to evidence, your uncle came to his death
not very long after Mr. Harwell left him. If your door was open, you
ought to have heard if any one went to his room, or any pistol shot was
fired. Now, did you hear anything?"

"I heard no confusion; no, sir."

"Did you hear anything?"

"Nor any pistol shot."

"Miss Leavenworth, excuse my persistence, but did you hear anything?"

"I heard a door close."

"What door?"

"The library door."

"When?"

"I do not know." She clasped her hands hysterically. "I cannot say. Why
do you ask me so many questions?"

I leaped to my feet; she was swaying, almost fainting. But before I
could reach her, she had drawn herself up again, and resumed her former
demeanor. "Excuse me," said she; "I am not myself this morning. I beg
your pardon," and she turned steadily to the coroner. "What was it you
asked?"

"I asked," and his voice grew thin and high,--evidently her manner was
beginning to tell against her,--"when it was you heard the library door
shut?"

"I cannot fix the precise time, but it was after Mr. Harwell came up,
and before I closed my own."

"And you heard no pistol shot?"

"No, sir."

The coroner cast a quick look at the jury, who almost to a man glanced
aside as he did so.

"Miss Leavenworth, we are told that Hannah, one of the servants, started
for your room late last night after some medicine. Did she come there?"

"No, sir."

"When did you first learn of her remarkable disappearance from this
house during the night?"

"This morning before breakfast. Molly met me in the hall, and asked
how Hannah was. I thought the inquiry a strange one, and naturally
questioned her. A moment's talk made the conclusion plain that the girl
was gone."

"What did you think when you became assured of this fact?"

"I did not know what to think."

"No suspicion of foul play crossed your mind?"

"No, sir."

"You did not connect the fact with that of your uncle's murder?"

"I did not know of this murder then."

"And afterwards?"

"Oh, some thought of the possibility of her knowing something about it
may have crossed my mind; I cannot say."

"Can you tell us anything of this girl's past history?"

"I can tell you no more in regard to it than my cousin has done."

"Do you not know what made her sad at night?"

Her cheek flushed angrily; was it at his tone, or at the question
itself? "No, sir! she never confided her secrets to my keeping."

"Then you cannot tell us where she would be likely to go upon leaving
this house?"

"Certainly not."

"Miss Leavenworth, we are obliged to put another question to you. We are
told it was by your order your uncle's body was removed from where it
was found, into the next room."

She bowed her head.

"Didn't you know it to be improper for you or any one else to disturb
the body of a person found dead, except in the presence and under the
authority of the proper officer?"

"I did not consult my knowledge, sir, in regard to the subject: only my
feelings."

"Then I suppose it was your feelings which prompted you to remain
standing by the table at which he was murdered, instead of following the
body in and seeing it properly deposited? Or perhaps," he went on, with
relentless sarcasm, "you were too much interested, just then, in the
piece of paper you took away, to think much of the proprieties of the
occasion?"

"Paper?" lifting her head with determination. "Who says I took a piece
of paper from the table?"

"One witness has sworn to seeing you bend over the table upon which
several papers lay strewn; another, to meeting you a few minutes later
in the hall just as you were putting a piece of paper into your pocket.
The inference follows, Miss Leavenworth."

This was a home thrust, and we looked to see some show of agitation, but
her haughty lip never quivered.

"You have drawn the inference, and you must prove the fact."

The answer was stateliness itself, and we were not surprised to see the
coroner look a trifle baffled; but, recovering himself, he said:

"Miss Leavenworth, I must ask you again, whether you did or did not take
anything from that table?"

She folded her arms. "I decline answering the question," she quietly
said.

"Pardon me," he rejoined: "it is necessary that you should."

Her lip took a still more determined curve. "When any suspicious paper
is found in my possession, it will be time enough then for me to explain
how I came by it."

This defiance seemed to quite stagger the coroner.

"Do you realize to what this refusal is liable to subject you?"

She dropped her head. "I am afraid that I do; yes, sir."

Mr. Gryce lifted his hand, and softly twirled the tassel of the window
curtain.

"And you still persist?"

She absolutely disdained to reply.

The coroner did not press it further.

It had now become evident to all, that Eleanore Leavenworth not only
stood on her defence, but was perfectly aware of her position, and
prepared to maintain it. Even her cousin, who until now had preserved
some sort of composure, began to show signs of strong and uncontrollable
agitation, as if she found it one thing to utter an accusation herself,
and quite another to see it mirrored in the countenances of the men
about her.

"Miss Leavenworth," the coroner continued, changing the line of attack,
"you have always had free access to your uncle's apartments, have you
not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Might even have entered his room late at night, crossed it and stood at
his side, without disturbing him sufficiently to cause him to turn his
head?"

"Yes," her hands pressing themselves painfully together.

"Miss Leavenworth, the key to the library door is missing."

She made no answer.

"It has been testified to, that previous to the actual discovery of the
murder, you visited the door of the library alone. Will you tell us if
the key was then in the lock?"

"It was not."

"Are you certain?"

"I am."

"Now, was there anything peculiar about this key, either in size or
shape?"

She strove to repress the sudden terror which this question produced,
glanced carelessly around at the group of servants stationed at her
back, and trembled. "It was a little different from the others," she
finally acknowledged.

"In what respect?"

"The handle was broken."

"Ah, gentlemen, the handle was broken!" emphasized the coroner, looking
towards the jury.

Mr. Gryce seemed to take this information to himself, for he gave
another of his quick nods.

"You would, then, recognize this key, Miss Leavenworth, if you should
see it?"

She cast a startled look at him, as if she expected to behold it in his
hand; but, seeming to gather courage at not finding it produced, replied
quite easily:

"I think I should, sir."

The coroner seemed satisfied, and was about to dismiss the witness when
Mr. Gryce quietly advanced and touched him on the arm. "One moment,"
said that gentleman, and stooping, he whispered a few words in the
coroner's ear; then, recovering himself, stood with his right hand in
his breast pocket and his eye upon the chandelier.

I scarcely dared to breathe. Had he repeated to the coroner the words
he had inadvertently overheard in the hall above? But a glance at
the latter's face satisfied me that nothing of such importance had
transpired. He looked not only tired, but a trifle annoyed.

"Miss Leavenworth," said he, turning again in her direction; "you have
declared that you did not visit your uncle's room last evening. Do you
repeat the assertion?"

"I do."

He glanced at Mr. Gryce, who immediately drew from his breast a
handkerchief curiously soiled. "It is strange, then, that your
handkerchief should have been found this morning in that room."

The girl uttered a cry. Then, while Mary's face hardened into a sort of
strong despair, Eleanore tightened her lips and coldly replied, "I
do not see as it is so very strange. I was in that room early this
morning."

"And you dropped it then?"

A distressed blush crossed her face; she did not reply.

"Soiled in this way?" he went on.

"I know nothing about the soil. What is it? let me see."

"In a moment. What we now wish, is to know how it came to be in your
uncle's apartment."

"There are many ways. I might have left it there days ago. I have told
you I was in the habit of visiting his room. But first, let me see if it
is my handkerchief." And she held out her hand.

"I presume so, as I am told it has your initials embroidered in the
corner," he remarked, as Mr. Gryce passed it to her.

But she with horrified voice interrupted him. "These dirty spots! What
are they? They look like--"

"--what they are," said the coroner. "If you have ever cleaned a pistol,
you must know what they are, Miss Leavenworth."

She let the handkerchief fall convulsively from her hand, and stood
staring at it, lying before her on the floor. "I know nothing about it,
gentlemen," she said. "It is my handkerchief, but--" for some cause she
did not finish her sentence, but again repeated, "Indeed, gentlemen, I
know nothing about it!"

This closed her testimony.

Kate, the cook, was now recalled, and asked to tell when she last washed
the handkerchief?

"This, sir; this handkerchief? Oh, some time this week, sir," throwing a
deprecatory glance at her mistress.

"What day?"

"Well, I wish I could forget, Miss Eleanore, but I can' t. It is the
only one like it in the house. I washed it day before yesterday."

"When did you iron it?"

"Yesterday morning," half choking over the words.

"And when did you take it to her room?"

The cook threw her apron over her head. "Yesterday afternoon, with the
rest of the clothes, just before dinner. Indade, I could not help it,
Miss Eleanore!" she whispered; "it was the truth."

Eleanore Leavenworth frowned. This somewhat contradictory evidence
had very sensibly affected her; and when, a moment later, the coroner,
having dismissed the witness, turned towards her, and inquired if she
had anything further to say in the way of explanation or otherwise,
she threw her hands up almost spasmodically, slowly shook her head and,
without word or warning, fainted quietly away in her chair.

A commotion, of course, followed, during which I noticed that Mary did
not hasten to her cousin, but left it for Molly and Kate to do what
they could toward her resuscitation. In a few moments this was in so far
accomplished that they were enabled to lead her from the room. As they
did so, I observed a tall man rise and follow her out.

A momentary silence ensued, soon broken, however, by an impatient stir
as our little juryman rose and proposed that the jury should now adjourn
for the day. This seeming to fall in with the coroner's views, he
announced that the inquest would stand adjourned till three o'clock the
next day, when he trusted all the jurors would be present.

A general rush followed, that in a few minutes emptied the room of all
but Miss Leavenworth, Mr. Gryce, and myself.



IX. A DISCOVERY


    "His rolling Eies did never rest in place,
     But walkte each where for feare of hid mischance,
     Holding a lattis still before his Pace,
     Through which he still did peep as forward he did pace."

        Faerie Queene.

MISS LEAVENWORTH, who appeared to have lingered from a vague terror
of everything and everybody in the house not under her immediate
observation, shrank from my side the moment she found herself left
comparatively alone, and, retiring to a distant corner, gave herself
up to grief. Turning my attention, therefore, in the direction of Mr.
Gryce, I found that person busily engaged in counting his own fingers
with a troubled expression upon his countenance, which may or may not
have been the result of that arduous employment. But, at my approach,
satisfied perhaps that he possessed no more than the requisite number,
he dropped his hands and greeted me with a faint smile which was,
considering all things, too suggestive to be pleasant.

"Well," said I, taking my stand before him, "I cannot blame you. You had
a right to do as you thought best; but how had you the heart? Was she
not sufficiently compromised without your bringing out that wretched
handkerchief, which she may or may not have dropped in that room,
but whose presence there, soiled though it was with pistol grease, is
certainly no proof that she herself was connected with this murder?"

"Mr. Raymond," he returned, "I have been detailed as police officer and
detective to look after this case, and I propose to do it."

"Of course," I hastened to reply. "I am the last man to wish you to
shirk your duly; but you cannot have the temerity to declare that this
young and tender creature can by any possibility be considered as at all
likely to be implicated in a crime so monstrous and unnatural. The mere
assertion of another woman's suspicions on the subject ought not----"

But here Mr. Gryce interrupted me. "You talk when your attention should
be directed to more important matters. That other woman, as you are
pleased to designate the fairest ornament of New York society, sits over
there in tears; go and comfort her."

Looking at him in amazement, I hesitated to comply; but, seeing he was
in earnest, crossed to Mary Leavenworth and sat down by her side.
She was weeping, but in a slow, unconscious way, as if grief had been
mastered by fear. The fear was too undisguised and the grief too natural
for me to doubt the genuineness of either.

"Miss Leavenworth," said I, "any attempt at consolation on the part of a
stranger must seem at a time like this the most bitter of mockeries; but
do try and consider that circumstantial evidence is not always absolute
proof."

Starting with surprise, she turned her eyes upon me with a slow,
comprehensive gaze wonderful to see in orbs so tender and womanly.

"No," she repeated; "circumstantial evidence is not absolute proof, but
Eleanore does not know this. She is so intense; she cannot see but one
thing at a time. She has been running her head into a noose, and oh,--"
Pausing, she clutched my arm with a passionate grasp: "Do you think
there is any danger? Will they--" She could not go on.

"Miss Leavenworth," I protested, with a warning look toward the
detective, "what do you mean?"

Like a flash, her glance followed mine, an instant change taking place
in her bearing.

"Your cousin may be intense," I went on, as if nothing had occurred;
"but I do not know to what you refer when you say she has been running
her head into a noose."

"I mean this," she firmly returned: "that, wittingly or unwittingly, she
has so parried and met the questions which have been put to her in this
room that any one listening to her would give her the credit of
knowing more than she ought to of this horrible affair. She acts"--Mary
whispered, but not so low but that every word could be distinctly
heard in all quarters of the room--"as if she were anxious to conceal
something. But she is not; I am sure she is not. Eleanore and I are not
good friends; but all the world can never make me believe she has any
more knowledge of this murder than I have. Won't somebody tell her,
then--won't you--that her manner is a mistake; that it is calculated to
arouse suspicion; that it has already done so? And oh, don't forget to
add"--her voice sinking to a decided whisper now--"what you have just
repeated to me: that circumstantial evidence is not always absolute
proof."

I surveyed her with great astonishment. What an actress this woman was!

"You request me to tell her this," said I. "Wouldn't it be better for
you to speak to her yourself?"

"Eleanore and I hold little or no confidential communication," she
replied.

I could easily believe this, and yet I was puzzled. Indeed, there was
something incomprehensible in her whole manner. Not knowing what else
to say, I remarked, "That is unfortunate. She ought to be told that the
straightforward course is the best by all means."

Mary Leavenworth only wept. "Oh, why has this awful trouble come to me,
who have always been so happy before!"

"Perhaps for the very reason that you have always been so happy."

"It was not enough for dear uncle to die in this horrible manner; but
she, my own cousin, had to----"

I touched her arm, and the action seemed to recall her to herself.
Stopping short, she bit her lip.

"Miss Leavenworth," I whispered, "you should hope for the best. Besides,
I honestly believe you to be disturbing yourself unnecessarily. If
nothing fresh transpires, a mere prevarication or so of your cousin's
will not suffice to injure her."

I said this to see if she had any reason to doubt the future. I was
amply rewarded.

"Anything fresh? How could there be anything fresh, when she is
perfectly innocent?"

Suddenly, a thought seemed to strike her. Wheeling round in her seat
till her lovely, perfumed wrapper brushed my knee, she asked: "Why
didn't they ask me more questions? I could have told them Eleanore never
left her room last night."

"You could?" What was I to think of this woman?

"Yes; my room is nearer the head of the stairs than hers; if she had
passed my door, I should have heard her, don't you see?"

Ah, that was all.

"That does not follow," I answered sadly. "Can you give no other
reason?"

"I would say whatever was necessary," she whispered.

I started back. Yes, this woman would lie now to save her cousin; had
lied during the inquest. But then I felt grateful, and now I was simply
horrified.

"Miss Leavenworth," said I, "nothing can justify one in violating the
dictates of his own conscience, not even the safety of one we do not
altogether love."

"No?" she returned; and her lip took a tremulous curve, the lovely bosom
heaved, and she softly looked away.

If Eleanore's beauty had made less of an impression on my fancy, or her
frightful situation awakened less anxiety in my breast, I should have
been a lost man from that moment.

"I did not mean to do anything very wrong," Miss Leavenworth continued.
"Do not think too badly of me."

"No, no," said I; and there is not a man living who would not have said
the same in my place.

What more might have passed between us on this subject I cannot say, for
just then the door opened and a man entered whom I recognized as the one
who had followed Eleanore Leavenworth out, a short time before.

"Mr. Gryce," said he, pausing just inside the door; "a word if you
please."

The detective nodded, but did not hasten towards him; instead of that,
he walked deliberately away to the other end of the room, where he
lifted the lid of an inkstand he saw there, muttered some unintelligible
words into it, and speedily shut it again. Immediately the uncanny fancy
seized me that if I should leap to that inkstand, open it and peer in,
I should surprise and capture the bit of confidence he had intrusted
to it. But I restrained my foolish impulse, and contented myself with
noting the subdued look of respect with which the gaunt subordinate
watched the approach of his superior.

"Well?" inquired the latter as he reached him: "what now?"

The man shrugged his shoulders, and drew his principal through the open
door. Once in the hall their voices sank to a whisper, and as their
backs only were visible, I turned to look at my companion. She was pale
but composed.

"Has he come from Eleanore?"

"I do not know; I fear so. Miss Leavenworth," I proceeded, "can it be
possible that your cousin has anything in her possession she desires to
conceal?"

"Then you think she is trying to conceal something?"

"I do not say so. But there was considerable talk about a paper----"

"They will never find any paper or anything else suspicious in
Eleanore's possession," Mary interrupted. "In the first place, there
was no paper of importance enough"--I saw Mr. Gryce's form suddenly
stiffen--"for any one to attempt its abstraction and concealment."

"Can you be sure of that? May not your cousin be acquainted with
something----"

"There was nothing to be acquainted with, Mr. Raymond. We lived the most
methodical and domestic of lives. I cannot understand, for my part, why
so much should be made out of this. My uncle undoubtedly came to his
death by the hand of some intended burglar. That nothing was stolen from
the house is no proof that a burglar never entered it. As for the doors
and windows being locked, will you take the word of an Irish servant
as infallible upon such an important point? I cannot. I believe the
assassin to be one of a gang who make their living by breaking into
houses, and if you cannot honestly agree with me, do try and consider
such an explanation as possible; if not for the sake of the family
credit, why then"--and she turned her face with all its fair beauty upon
mine, eyes, cheeks, mouth all so exquisite and winsome--"why then, for
mine."

Instantly Mr. Gryce turned towards us. "Mr. Raymond, will you be kind
enough to step this way?"

Glad to escape from my present position, I hastily obeyed.

"What has happened?" I asked.

"We propose to take you into our confidence," was the easy response.
"Mr. Raymond, Mr. Fobbs."

I bowed to the man I saw before me, and stood uneasily waiting. Anxious
as I was to know what we really had to fear, I still intuitively shrank
from any communication with one whom I looked upon as a spy.

"A matter of some importance," resumed the detective. "It is not
necessary for me to remind you that it is in confidence, is it?"

"No."

"I thought not. Mr. Fobbs you may proceed."

Instantly the whole appearance of the man Fobbs changed. Assuming an
expression of lofty importance, he laid his large hand outspread upon
his heart and commenced.

"Detailed by Mr. Gryce to watch the movements of Miss Eleanore
Leavenworth, I left this room upon her departure from it, and followed
her and the two servants who conducted her up-stairs to her own
apartment. Once there---"

Mr. Gryce interrupted him. "Once there? where?"

"Her own room, sir."

"Where situated?"

"At the head of the stairs."

"That is not her room. Go on."

"Not her room? Then it _was_ the fire she was after!" he cried, clapping
himself on the knee.

"The fire?"

"Excuse me; I am ahead of my story. She did not appear to notice me
much, though I was right behind her. It was not until she had reached
the door of this room--which was not her room!" he interpolated
dramatically, "and turned to dismiss her servants, that she seemed
conscious of having been followed. Eying me then with an air of
great dignity, quickly eclipsed, however, by an expression of patient
endurance, she walked in, leaving the door open behind her in a
courteous way I cannot sufficiently commend."

I could not help frowning. Honest as the man appeared, this was
evidently anything but a sore subject with him. Observing me frown, he
softened his manner.

"Not seeing any other way of keeping her under my eye, except by
entering the room, I followed her in, and took a seat in a remote
corner. She flashed one look at me as I did so, and commenced pacing the
floor in a restless kind of way I'm not altogether unused to. At last
she stopped abruptly, right in the middle of the room. 'Get me a glass
of water!' she gasped; 'I'm faint again--quick! on the stand in the
corner.' Now in order to get that glass of water it was necessary for me
to pass behind a dressing mirror that reached almost to the ceiling;
and I naturally hesitated. But she turned and looked at me, and--Well,
gentlemen, I think either of you would have hastened to do what she
asked; or at least"--with a doubtful look at Mr. Gryce--"have given
your two ears for the privilege, even if you didn't succumb to the
temptation."

"Well, well!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce, impatiently.

"I am going on," said he. "I stepped out of sight, then, for a moment;
but it seemed long enough for her purpose; for when I emerged, glass in
hand, she was kneeling at the grate full five feet from the spot where
she had been standing, and was fumbling with the waist of her dress in
a way to convince me she had something concealed there which she was
anxious to dispose of. I eyed her pretty closely as I handed her the
glass of water, but she was gazing into the grate, and didn't appear to
notice. Drinking barely a drop, she gave it back, and in another moment
was holding out her hands over the fire. 'Oh, I am so cold!' she cried,
'so cold.' And I verily believe she was. At any rate, she shivered most
naturally. But there were a few dying embers in the grate, and when
I saw her thrust her hand again into the folds of her dress I became
distrustful of her intentions and, drawing a step nearer, looked over
her shoulder, when I distinctly saw her drop something into the
grate that clinked as it fell. Suspecting what it was, I was about to
interfere, when she sprang to her feet, seized the scuttle of coal that
was upon the hearth, and with one move emptied the whole upon the dying
embers. 'I want a fire,' she cried, 'a fire!' 'That is hardly the way
to make one,' I returned, carefully taking the coal out with my hands,
piece by piece, and putting it back into the scuttle, till--"

"Till what?" I asked, seeing him and Mr. Gryce exchange a hurried look.

"Till I found this!" opening his large hand, and showing me _a
broken-handled key._



X. MR. GRYCE RECEIVES NEW IMPETUS


    "There's nothing ill
     Can dwell in such a temple."

        Tempest.

THIS astounding discovery made a most unhappy impression upon me. It was
true, then. Eleanore the beautiful, the lovesome, was--I did not, could
not finish the sentence, even in the silence of my own mind.

"You look surprised," said Mr. Gryce, glancing curiously towards the
key. "Now, I ain't. A woman does not thrill, blush, equivocate, and
faint for nothing; especially such a woman as Miss Leavenworth."

"A woman who could do such a deed would be the last to thrill,
equivocate, and faint," I retorted. "Give me the key; let me see it."

He complacently put it in my hand. "It is the one we want. No getting
out of that."

I returned it. "If she declares herself innocent, I will believe her."

He stared with great amazement. "You have strong faith in the women," he
laughed. "I hope they will never disappoint you."

I had no reply for this, and a short silence ensued, first broken by Mr.
Gryce. "There is but one thing left to do," said he. "Fobbs, you will
have to request Miss Leavenworth to come down. Do not alarm her; only
see that she comes. To the reception room," he added, as the man drew
off.

No sooner were we left alone than I made a move to return to Mary, but
he stopped me.

"Come and see it out," he whispered. "She will be down in a moment; see
it out; you had best."

Glancing back, I hesitated; but the prospect of beholding Eleanore again
drew me, in spite of myself. Telling him to wait, I returned to Mary's
side to make my excuses.

"What is the matter--what has occurred?" she breathlessly asked.

"Nothing as yet to disturb you much. Do not be alarmed." But my face
betrayed me.

"There is something!" said she.

"Your cousin is coming down."

"Down here?" and she shrank visibly.

"No, to the reception room."

"I do not understand. It is all dreadful; and no one tells me anything."

"I pray God there may be nothing to tell. Judging from your present
faith in your cousin, there will not be. Take comfort, then, and be
assured I will inform you if anything occurs which you ought to know."

Giving her a look of encouragement, I left her crushed against the
crimson pillows of the sofa on which she sat, and rejoined Mr. Gryce. We
had scarcely entered the reception room when Eleanore Leavenworth came
in.

More languid than she was an hour before, but haughty still, she slowly
advanced, and, meeting my eye, gently bent her head.

"I have been summoned here," said she, directing herself exclusively to
Mr. Gryce, "by an individual whom I take to be in your employ. If so,
may I request you to make your wishes known at once, as I am quite
exhausted, and am in great need of rest."

"Miss Leavenworth," returned Mr. Gryce, rubbing his hands together and
staring in quite a fatherly manner at the door-knob, "I am very sorry to
trouble you, but the fact is I wish to ask you----"

But here she stopped him. "Anything in regard to the key which that man
has doubtless told you he saw me drop into the ashes?"

"Yes, Miss."

"Then I must refuse to answer any questions concerning it. I have
nothing to say on the subject, unless it is this:"--giving him a look
full of suffering, but full of a certain sort of courage, too--"that he
was right if he told you I had the key in hiding about my person, and
that I attempted to conceal it in the ashes of the grate."

"Still, Miss----"

But she had already withdrawn to the door. "I pray you to excuse me,"
said she. "No argument you could advance would make any difference in my
determination; therefore it would be but a waste of energy on your
part to attempt any." And, with a flitting glance in my direction, not
without its appeal, she quietly left the room.

For a moment Mr. Gryce stood gazing after her with a look of great
interest, then, bowing with almost exaggerated homage, he hastily
followed her out.

I had scarcely recovered from the surprise occasioned by this unexpected
movement when a quick step was heard in the hall, and Mary, flushed and
anxious, appeared at my side.

"What is it?" she inquired. "What has Eleanore been saying?"

"Alas!" I answered, "she has not said anything. That is the trouble,
Miss Leavenworth. Your cousin preserves a reticence upon certain points
very painful to witness. She ought to understand that if she persists in
doing this, that----"

"That what?" There was no mistaking the deep anxiety prompting this
question.

"That she cannot avoid the trouble that will ensue."

For a moment she stood gazing at me, with great horror-stricken,
incredulous eyes; then sinking back into a chair, flung her hands over
her face with the cry:

"Oh, why were we ever born! Why were we allowed to live! Why did we not
perish with those who gave us birth!"

In the face of anguish like this, I could not keep still.

"Dear Miss Leavenworth," I essayed, "there is no cause for such despair
as this. The future looks dark, but not impenetrable. Your cousin will
listen to reason, and in explaining----"

But she, deaf to my words, had again risen to her feet, and stood before
me in an attitude almost appalling.

"Some women in my position would go mad! mad! mad!"

I surveyed her with growing wonder. I thought I knew what she meant. She
was conscious of having given the cue which had led to this suspicion of
her cousin, and that in this way the trouble which hung over their heads
was of her own making. I endeavored to soothe her, but my efforts
were all unavailing. Absorbed in her own anguish, she paid but little
attention to me. Satisfied at last that I could do nothing more for her,
I turned to go. The movement seemed to arouse her.

"I am sorry to leave," said I, "without having afforded you any comfort.
Believe me; I am very anxious to assist you. Is there no one I can send
to your side; no woman friend or relative? It is sad to leave you alone
in this house at such a time."

"And do you expect me to remain here? Why, I should die! Here to-night?"
and the long shudders shook her very frame.

"It is not at all necessary for you to do so, Miss Leavenworth," broke
in a bland voice over our shoulders.

I turned with a start. Mr. Gryce was not only at our back, but had
evidently been there for some moments. Seated near the door, one hand
in his pocket, the other caressing the arm of his chair, he met our
gaze with a sidelong smile that seemed at once to beg pardon for
the intrusion, and to assure us it was made with no unworthy motive.
"Everything will be properly looked after, Miss; you can leave with
perfect safety."

I expected to see her resent this interference; but instead of that, she
manifested a certain satisfaction in beholding him there.

Drawing me to one side, she whispered, "You think this Mr. Gryce very
clever, do you not?"

"Well," I cautiously replied, "he ought to be to hold the position he
does. The authorities evidently repose great confidence in him."

Stepping from my side as suddenly as she had approached it, she crossed
the room and stood before Mr. Gryce.

"Sir," said she, gazing at him with a glance of entreaty: "I hear you
have great talents; that you can ferret out the real criminal from
a score of doubtful characters, and that nothing can escape the
penetration of your eye. If this is so, have pity on two orphan
girls, suddenly bereft of their guardian and protector, and use your
acknowledged skill in finding out who has committed this crime. It
would be folly in me to endeavor to hide from you that my cousin in her
testimony has given cause for suspicion; but I here declare her to be as
innocent of wrong as I am; and I am only endeavoring to turn the eye
of justice from the guiltless to the guilty when I entreat you to look
elsewhere for the culprit who committed this deed." Pausing, she held
her two hands out before him. "It must have been some common burglar or
desperado; can you not bring him, then, to justice?"

Her attitude was so touching, her whole appearance so earnest and
appealing, that I saw Mr. Gryce's countenance brim with suppressed
emotion, though his eye never left the coffee-urn upon which it had
fixed itself at her first approach.

"You must find out--you can!" she went on. "Hannah--the girl who is
gone--must know all about it. Search for her, ransack the city, do
anything; my property is at your disposal. I will offer a large reward
for the detection of the burglar who did this deed!"

Mr. Gryce slowly rose. "Miss Leavenworth," he began, and stopped; the
man was actually agitated. "Miss Leavenworth, I did not need your very
touching appeal to incite me to my utmost duty in this case. Personal
and professional pride were in themselves sufficient. But, since you
have honored me with this expression of your wishes, I will not conceal
from you that I shall feel a certain increased interest in the affair
from this hour. What mortal man can do, I will do, and if in one month
from this day I do not come to you for my reward, Ebenezer Gryce is not
the man I have always taken him to be."

"And Eleanore?"

"We will mention no names," said he, gently waving his hand to and fro.

A few minutes later, I left the house with Miss Leavenworth, she having
expressed a wish to have me accompany her to the home of her friend,
Mrs. Gilbert, with whom she had decided to take refuge. As we rolled
down the street in the carriage Mr. Gryce had been kind enough to
provide for us, I noticed my companion cast a look of regret behind her,
as if she could not help feeling some compunctions at this desertion of
her cousin.

But this expression was soon changed for the alert look of one who
dreads to see a certain face start up from some unknown quarter.
Glancing up and down the street, peering furtively into doorways as
we passed, starting and trembling if a sudden figure appeared on the
curbstone, she did not seem to breathe with perfect ease till we had
left the avenue behind us and entered upon Thirty-seventh Street. Then,
all at once her natural color returned and, leaning gently toward me,
she asked if I had a pencil and piece of paper I could give her. I
fortunately possessed both. Handing them to her, I watched her with some
little curiosity while she wrote two or three lines, wondering she could
choose such a time and place for the purpose.

"A little note I wish to send," she explained, glancing at the almost
illegible scrawl with an expression of doubt. "Couldn't you stop the
carriage a moment while I direct it?"

I did so, and in another instant the leaf which I had torn from my
note-book was folded, directed, and sealed with a stamp which she had
taken from her own pocket-book.

"That is a crazy-looking epistle," she muttered, as she laid it,
direction downwards, in her lap.

"Why not wait, then, till you arrive at your destination, where you can
seal it properly, and direct it at your leisure?"

"Because I am in haste. I wish to mail it now. Look, there is a box on
the corner; please ask the driver to stop once more."

"Shall I not post it for you?" I asked, holding out my hand.

But she shook her head, and, without waiting for my assistance, opened
the door on her own side of the carriage and leaped to the ground. Even
then she paused to glance up and down the street, before venturing to
drop her hastily written letter into the box. But when it had left her
hand, she looked brighter and more hopeful than I had yet seen her. And
when, a few moments later, she turned to bid me good-by in front of her
friend's house, it was with almost a cheerful air she put out her hand
and entreated me to call on her the next day, and inform her how the
inquest progressed.

I shall not attempt to disguise from you the fact that I spent all
that long evening in going over the testimony given at the inquest,
endeavoring to reconcile what I had heard with any other theory than
that of Eleanore's guilt. Taking a piece of paper, I jotted down the
leading causes of suspicion as follows:

1. Her late disagreement with her uncle, and evident estrangement from
him, as testified to by Mr. Harwell.

2. The mysterious disappearance of one of the servants of the house.

3. The forcible accusation made by her cousin,--overheard, however, only
by Mr. Gryce and myself.

4. Her equivocation in regard to the handkerchief found stained with
pistol smut on the scene of the tragedy.

5. Her refusal to speak in regard to the paper which she was supposed to
have taken from Mr. Leavenworth's table immediately upon the removal of
the body.

6. The finding of the library key in her possession.

"A dark record," I involuntarily decided, as I looked it over; but
even in doing so began jotting down on the other side of the sheet the
following explanatory notes:

1. Disagreements and even estrangements between relatives are common.
Cases where such disagreements and estrangements have led to crime,
rare.

2. The disappearance of Hannah points no more certainly in one direction
than another.

3. If Mary's private accusation of her cousin was forcible and
convincing, her public declaration that she neither knew nor suspected
who might be the author of this crime, was equally so. To be sure, the
former possessed the advantage of being uttered spontaneously; but it
was likewise true that it was spoken under momentary excitement, without
foresight of the consequences, and possibly without due consideration of
the facts.

4, 5. An innocent man or woman, under the influence of terror, will
often equivocate in regard to matters that seem to criminate them.

But the key! What could I say to that? Nothing. With that key in her
possession, and unexplained, Eleanore Leavenworth stood in an attitude
of suspicion which even I felt forced to recognize. Brought to this
point, I thrust the paper into my pocket, and took up the evening
_Express_. Instantly my eye fell upon these words:


    SHOCKING MURDER

    MR. LEAVENWORTH, THE WELL-KNOWN MILLIONAIRE, FOUND DEAD IN HIS ROOM

    NO CLUE TO THE PERPETRATOR OF THE DEED

    THE AWFUL CRIME COMMITTED WITH A PISTOL--EXTRAORDINARY FEATURES OF
    THE AFFAIR

Ah! here at least was one comfort; her name was not yet mentioned
as that of a suspected party. But what might not the morrow bring? I
thought of Mr. Gryce's expressive look as he handed me that key, and
shuddered.

"She must be innocent; she cannot be otherwise," I reiterated to myself,
and then pausing, asked what warranty I had of this? Only her beautiful
face; only, only her beautiful face. Abashed, I dropped the newspaper,
and went down-stairs just as a telegraph boy arrived with a message from
Mr. Veeley. It was signed by the proprietor of the hotel at which Mr.
Veeley was then stopping and ran thus:


    "WASHINGTON, D. C.

    "MR. Everett Raymond--

    "Mr. Veeley is lying at my house ill. Have not shown him telegram,
    fearing results. Will do so as soon as advisable.

    "Thomas Loworthy."

I went in musing. Why this sudden sensation of relief on my part? Could
it be that I had unconsciously been guilty of cherishing a latent dread
of my senior's return? Why, who else could know so well the secret
springs which governed this family? Who else could so effectually put me
upon the right track? Was it possible that I, Everett Raymond, hesitated
to know the truth in any case? No, that should never be said; and,
sitting down again, I drew out the memoranda I had made and, looking
them carefully over, wrote against No. 6 the word suspicious in good
round characters. There! no one could say, after that, I had allowed
myself to be blinded by a bewitching face from seeing what, in a woman
with no claims to comeliness, would be considered at once an almost
indubitable evidence of guilt.

And yet, after it was all done, I found myself repeating aloud as I
gazed at it: "If she declares herself innocent, I will believe her." So
completely are we the creatures of our own predilections.



XI. THE SUMMONS


    "The pink of courtesy."
        Romeo and Juliet.

THE morning papers contained a more detailed account of the murder than
those of the evening before; but, to my great relief, in none of them
was Eleanore's name mentioned in the connection I most dreaded.

The final paragraph in the _Times_ ran thus: "The detectives are upon
the track of the missing girl, Hannah." And in the _Herald_ I read the
following notice:

"_A Liberal Reward_ will be given by the relatives of Horatio
Leavenworth, Esq., deceased, for any news of the whereabouts of one
Hannah Chester, disappeared from the house -------- Fifth Avenue since
the evening of March 4. Said girl was of Irish extraction; in age about
twenty-five, and may be known by the following characteristics. Form
tall and slender; hair dark brown with a tinge of red; complexion fresh;
features delicate and well made; hands small, but with the fingers much
pricked by the use of the needle; feet large, and of a coarser type than
the hands. She had on when last seen a checked gingham dress, brown
and white, and was supposed to have wrapped herself in a red and green
blanket shawl, very old. Beside the above distinctive marks, she had
upon her right hand wrist the scar of a large burn; also a pit or two of
smallpox upon the left temple."

This paragraph turned my thoughts in a new direction. Oddly enough, I
had expended very little thought upon this girl; and yet how apparent
it was that she was the one person upon whose testimony, if given,
the whole case in reality hinged, I could not agree with those who
considered her as personally implicated in the murder. An accomplice,
conscious of what was before her, would have hid in her pockets whatever
money she possessed. But the roll of bills found in Hannah's trunk
proved her _to_ have left too hurriedly for this precaution. On the
other hand, if this girl had come unexpectedly upon the assassin at his
work, how could she have been hustled from the house without creating
a disturbance loud enough to have been heard by the ladies, one of
whom had her door open? An innocent girl's first impulse upon such an
occasion would have been to scream; and yet no scream was heard; she
simply disappeared. What were we to think then? That the person seen
by her was one both known and trusted? I would not consider such a
possibility; so laying down the paper, I endeavored to put away all
further consideration of the affair till I had acquired more facts
upon which to base the theory. But who can control his thoughts when
over-excited upon any one theme? All the morning I found myself turning
the case over in my mind, arriving ever at one of two conclusions.
Hannah Chester must be found, or Eleanore Leavenworth must explain when
and by what means the key of the library door came into her possession.

At two o'clock I started from my office to attend the inquest; but,
being delayed on the way, missed arriving at the house until after the
delivery of the verdict. This was a disappointment to me, especially as
by these means I lost the opportunity of seeing Eleanore Leavenworth,
she having retired to her room immediately upon the dismissal of the
jury. But Mr. Harwell was visible, and from him I heard what the verdict
had been.

"Death by means of a pistol shot from the hand of some person unknown."

The result of the inquest was a great relief to me. I had feared worse.
Nor could I help seeing that, for all his studied self-command, the
pale-faced secretary shared in my satisfaction.

What was less of a relief to me was the fact, soon communicated, that
Mr. Gryce and his subordinates had left the premises immediately upon
the delivery of the verdict. Mr. Gryce was not the man to forsake an
affair like this while anything of importance connected with it remained
unexplained. Could it be he meditated any decisive action? Somewhat
alarmed, I was about to hurry from the house for the purpose of learning
what his intentions were, when a sudden movement in the front lower
window of the house on the opposite side of the way arrested my
attention, and, looking closer, I detected the face of Mr. Fobbs peering
out from behind the curtain. The sight assured me I was not wrong in my
estimate of Mr. Gryce; and, struck with pity for the desolate girl left
to meet the exigencies of a fate to which this watch upon her movements
was but the evident precursor, I stepped back and sent her a note, in
which, as Mr. Veeley's representative, I proffered my services in case
of any sudden emergency, saying I was always to be found in my rooms
between the hours of six and eight. This done, I proceeded to the house
in Thirty-seventh Street where I had left Miss Mary Leavenworth the day
before.

Ushered into the long and narrow drawing-room which of late years
has been so fashionable in our uptown houses, I found myself almost
immediately in the presence of Miss Leavenworth.

"Oh," she cried, with an eloquent gesture of welcome, "I had begun to
think I was forsaken!" and advancing impulsively, she held out her hand.
"What is the news from home?"

"A verdict of murder, Miss Leavenworth."

Her eyes did not lose their question.

"Perpetrated by party or parties unknown."

A look of relief broke softly across her features.

"And they are all gone?" she exclaimed.

"I found no one in the house who did not belong there."

"Oh! then we can breathe easily again."

I glanced hastily up and down the room.

"There is no one here," said she.

And still I hesitated. At length, in an awkward way enough, I turned
towards her and said:

"I do not wish either to offend or alarm you, but I must say that I
consider it your duty to return to your own home to-night."

"Why?" she stammered. "Is there any particular reason for my doing so?
Have you not perceived the impossibility of my remaining in the same
house with Eleanore?"

"Miss Leavenworth, I cannot recognize any so-called impossibility of
this nature. Eleanore is your cousin; has been brought up to regard you
as a sister; it is not worthy of you to desert her at the time of her
necessity. You will see this as I do, if you will allow yourself a
moment's dispassionate thought."

"Dispassionate thought is hardly possible under the circumstances," she
returned, with a smile of bitter irony.

But before I could reply to this, she softened, and asked if I was very
anxious to have her return; and when I replied, "More than I can say,"
she trembled and looked for a moment as if she were half inclined to
yield; but suddenly broke into tears, crying it was impossible, and that
I was cruel to ask it.

I drew back, baffled and sore. "Pardon me," said I, "I have indeed
transgressed the bounds allotted to me. I will not do so again; you have
doubtless many friends; let some of them advise you."

She turned upon me all fire. "The friends you speak of are flatterers.
You alone have the courage to command me to do what is right."

"Excuse me, I do not command; I only entreat."

She made no reply, but began pacing the room, her eyes fixed, her hands
working convulsively. "You little know what you ask," said she. "I feel
as though the very atmosphere of that house would destroy me; but--why
cannot Eleanore come here?" she impulsively inquired. "I know Mrs.
Gilbert will be quite willing, and I could keep my room, and we need not
meet."

"You forget that there is another call at home, besides the one I have
already mentioned. To-morrow afternoon your uncle is to be buried."

"O yes; poor, poor uncle!"

"You are the head of the household," I now ventured, "and the proper
one to attend to the final offices towards one who has done so much for
you."

There was something strange in the look which she gave me. "It is true,"
she assented. Then, with a grand turn of her body, and a quick air of
determination: "I am desirous of being worthy of your good opinion. I
will go back to my cousin, Mr. Raymond."

I felt my spirits rise a little; I took her by the hand. "May that
cousin have no need of the comfort which I am now sure you will be ready
to give her."

Her hand dropped from mine. "I mean to do my duty," was her cold
response.

As I descended the stoop, I met a certain thin and fashionably dressed
young man, who gave me a very sharp look as he passed. As he wore his
clothes a little too conspicuously for the perfect gentleman, and as I
had some remembrance of having seen him at the inquest, I set him down
for a man in Mr. Gryce's employ, and hasted on towards the avenue; when
what was my surprise to find on the corner another person, who,
while pretending to be on the look out for a car, cast upon me, as I
approached, a furtive glance of intense inquiry. As this latter was,
without question, a gentleman, I felt some annoyance, and, walking
quietly up to him, asked if he found my countenance familiar, that he
scrutinized it so closely.

"I find it a very agreeable one," was his unexpected reply, as he turned
from me and walked down the avenue.

Nettled, and in no small degree mortified, at the disadvantage in which
his courtesy had placed me, I stood watching him as he disappeared,
asking myself who and what he was. For he was not only a gentleman, but
a marked one; possessing features of unusual symmetry as well as a form
of peculiar elegance. Not so very young--he might well be forty--there
were yet evident on his face the impress of youth's strongest emotions,
not a curve of his chin nor a glance of his eye betraying in any way the
slightest leaning towards _ennui,_ though face and figure were of that
type which seems most to invite and cherish it.

"He can have no connection with the police force," thought I; "nor is it
by any means certain that he knows me, or is interested in my affairs;
but I shall not soon forget him, for all that."

The summons from Eleanore Leavenworth came about eight o'clock in the
evening. It was brought by Thomas, and read as follows:

"Come, Oh, come! I--" there breaking off in a tremble, as if the pen had
fallen from a nerveless hand.

It did not take me long to find my way to her home.



XII. ELEANORE.


    "Constant you are--
     ... And for secrecy
     No lady closer."

        Henry IV.

    "No, 't is slander,
    Whose edge is sharper than the sword whose tongue
    Outvenoms all the worms of Nile."

        Cymbeline.

THE door was opened by Molly. "You will find Miss Eleanore in the
drawing-room, sir," she said, ushering me in.

Fearing I knew not what, I hurried to the room thus indicated, feeling
as never before the sumptuousness of the magnificent hall with its
antique flooring, carved woods, and bronze ornamentations:--the mockery
of _things_ for the first time forcing itself upon me. Laying my hand
on the drawing-room door, I listened. All was silent. Slowly pulling it
open, I lifted the heavy satin curtains hanging before me to the floor,
and looked within. What a picture met my eyes!

Sitting in the light of a solitary gas jet, whose faint glimmering just
served to make visible the glancing satin and stainless marble of
the gorgeous apartment, I beheld Eleanore Leavenworth. Pale as the
sculptured image of the Psyche that towered above her from the mellow
dusk of the bow-window near which she sat, beautiful as it, and almost
as immobile, she crouched with rigid hands frozen in forgotten entreaty
before her, apparently insensible to sound, movement, or touch; a silent
figure of despair in presence of an implacable fate.

Impressed by the scene, I stood with my hand upon the curtain,
hesitating if to advance or retreat, when suddenly a sharp tremble shook
her impassive frame, the rigid hands unlocked, the stony eyes softened,
and, springing to her feet, she uttered a cry of satisfaction, and
advanced towards me.

"Miss Leavenworth!" I exclaimed, starting at the sound of my own voice.

She paused, and pressed her hands to her face, as if the world and all
she had forgotten had rushed back upon her at this simple utterance of
her name.

"What is it?" I asked.

Her hands fell heavily. "Do you not know? They--they are beginning to
say that I--" she paused, and clutched her throat. "Read!" she gasped,
pointing to a newspaper lying on the floor at her feet.

I stooped and lifted what showed itself at first glance to be the
_Evening Telegram._ It needed but a single look to inform me to what she
referred. There, in startling characters, I beheld:


    THE LEAVENWORTH MURDER

    LATEST DEVELOPMENTS IN THE MYSTERIOUS CASE

    A MEMBER OF THE MURDERED MAN'S OWN FAMILY
    STRONGLY SUSPECTED OF THE CRIME

    THE MOST BEAUTIFUL WOMAN IN NEW YORK UNDER A CLOUD

    PAST HISTORY OF MISS ELEANORE LEAVENWORTH

I was prepared for it; had schooled myself for this very thing, you
might say; and yet I could not help recoiling. Dropping the paper from
my hand, I stood before her, longing and yet dreading to look into her
face.

"What does it mean?" she panted; "what, what does it mean? Is the world
mad?" and her eyes, fixed and glassy, stared into mine as if she found
it impossible to grasp the sense of this outrage.

I shook my head. I could not reply.

"To accuse _me_" she murmured; "me, me!" striking her breast with her
clenched hand, "who loved the very ground he trod upon; who would have
cast my own body between him and the deadly bullet if I had only known
his danger. Oh!" she cried, "it is not a slander they utter, but a
dagger which they thrust into my heart!"

Overcome by her misery, but determined not to show my compassion until
more thoroughly convinced of her complete innocence, I replied, after a
pause:

"This seems to strike you with great surprise, Miss Leavenworth; were
you not then able to foresee what must follow your determined reticence
upon certain points? Did you know so little of human nature as to
imagine that, situated as you are, you could keep silence in regard to
any matter connected with this crime, without arousing the antagonism of
the crowd, to say nothing of the suspicions of the police?"

"But--but----"

I hurriedly waved my hand. "When you defied the coroner to find
any suspicious paper in your possession; when"--I forced myself to
speak--"you refused to tell Mr. Gryce how you came in possession of the
key--"

She drew hastily back, a heavy pall seeming to fall over her with my
words.

"Don't," she whispered, looking in terror about her. "Don't! Sometimes I
think the walls have ears, and that the very shadows listen."

"Ah," I returned; "then you hope to keep from the world what is known to
the detectives?"

She did not answer.

"Miss Leavenworth," I went on, "I am afraid you do not comprehend
your position. Try to look at the case for a moment in the light of
an unprejudiced person; try to see for yourself the necessity of
explaining----"

"But I cannot explain," she murmured huskily.

"Cannot!"

I do not know whether it was the tone of my voice or the word itself,
but that simple expression seemed to affect her like a blow.

"Oh!" she cried, shrinking back: "you do not, cannot doubt me, too? I
thought that you--" and stopped. "I did not dream that I--" and stopped
again. Suddenly her whole form quivered. "Oh, I see! You have mistrusted
me from the first; the appearances against me have been too strong"; and
she sank inert, lost in the depths of her shame and humiliation. "Ah,
but now I am forsaken!" she murmured.

The appeal went to my heart. Starting forward, I exclaimed: "Miss
Leavenworth, I am but a man; I cannot see you so distressed. Say
that you are innocent, and I will believe you, without regard to
appearances."

Springing erect, she towered upon me. "Can any one look in my face
and accuse me of guilt?" Then, as I sadly shook my head, she hurriedly
gasped: "You want further proof!" and, quivering with an extraordinary
emotion, she sprang to the door.

"Come, then," she cried, "come!" her eyes flashing full of resolve upon
me.

Aroused, appalled, moved in spite of myself, I crossed the room to where
she stood; but she was already in the hall. Hastening after her, filled
with a fear I dared not express, I stood at the foot of the stairs; she
was half-way to the top. Following her into the hall above, I saw her
form standing erect and noble at the door of her uncle's bedroom.

"Come!" she again cried, but this time in a calm and reverential tone;
and flinging the door open before her, she passed in.

Subduing the wonder which I felt, I slowly followed her. There was no
light in the room of death, but the flame of the gas-burner, at the far
end of the hall, shone weirdly in, and by its glimmering I beheld her
kneeling at the shrouded bed, her head bowed above that of the murdered
man, her hand upon his breast.

"You have said that if I declared my innocence you would believe me,"
she exclaimed, lifting her head as I entered. "See here," and laying
her cheek against the pallid brow of her dead benefactor, she kissed the
clay-cold lips softly, wildly, agonizedly, then, leaping to her feet,
cried, in a subdued but thrilling tone: "Could I do that if I were
guilty? Would not the breath freeze on my lips, the blood congeal in
my veins, and my heart faint at this contact? Son of a father loved and
reverenced, can you believe me to be a woman stained with crime when I
can do this?" and kneeling again she cast her arms over and about that
inanimate form, looking in my face at the same time with an expression
no mortal touch could paint, nor tongue describe.

"In olden times," she went on, "they used to say that a dead body would
bleed if its murderer came in contact with it. What then would happen
here if I, his daughter, his cherished child, loaded with benefits,
enriched with his jewels, warm with his kisses, should be the thing they
accuse me of? Would not the body of the outraged dead burst its very
shroud and repel me?"

I could not answer; in the presence of some scenes the tongue forgets
its functions.

"Oh!" she went on, "if there is a God in heaven who loves justice and
hates a crime, let Him hear me now. If I, by thought or action, with
or without intention, have been the means of bringing this dear head to
this pass; if so much as the shadow of guilt, let alone the substance,
lies upon my heart and across these feeble woman's hands, may His wrath
speak in righteous retribution to the world, and here, upon the breast
of the dead, let this guilty forehead fall, never to rise again!"

An awed silence followed this invocation; then a long, long sigh of
utter relief rose tremulously from my breast, and all the feelings
hitherto suppressed in my heart burst their bonds, and leaning towards
her I took her hand in mine.

"You do not, cannot believe me tainted by crime now?" she whispered,
the smile which does not stir the lips, but rather emanates from the
countenance, like the flowering of an inner peace, breaking softly out
on cheek and brow.

"Crime!" The word broke uncontrollably from my lips; "crime!"

"No," she said calmly, "the man does not live who could accuse me of
crime, _here_."

For reply, I took her hand, which lay in mine, and placed it on the
breast of the dead.

Softly, slowly, gratefully, she bowed her head.

"Now let the struggle come!" she whispered. "There is one who will
believe in me, however dark appearances may be."



XIII. THE PROBLEM


    "But who would force the soul, tilts with a straw
     Against a champion cased in adamant."
        Wordsworth.

WHEN we re-entered the parlor below, the first sight that met our eyes
was Mary, standing wrapped in her long cloak in the centre of the room.
She had arrived during our absence, and now awaited us with lifted head
and countenance fixed in its proudest expression. Looking in her face, I
realized what the embarrassment of this meeting must be to these
women, and would have retreated, but something in the attitude of Mary
Leavenworth seemed to forbid my doing so. At the same time, determined
that the opportunity should not pass without some sort of reconcilement
between them, I stepped forward, and, bowing to Mary, said:

"Your cousin has just succeeded in convincing me of her entire
innocence, Miss Leavenworth. I am now ready to join Mr. Gryce, heart and
soul, in finding out the true culprit."

"I should have thought one look into Eleanore Leavenworth's face would
have been enough to satisfy you that she is incapable of crime," was
her unexpected answer; and, lifting her head with a proud gesture, Mary
Leavenworth fixed her eyes steadfastly on mine.

I felt the blood flash to my brow, but before I could speak, her voice
rose again still more coldly than before.

"It is hard for a delicate girl, unused to aught but the most flattering
expressions of regard, to be obliged to assure the world of her
innocence in respect to the committal of a great crime. Eleanore has
my sympathy." And sweeping her cloak from her shoulders with a quick
gesture, she turned her gaze for the first time upon her cousin.

Instantly Eleanore advanced, as if to meet it; and I could not but feel
that, for some reason, this moment possessed an importance for them
which I was scarcely competent to measure. But if I found myself unable
to realize its significance, I at least responded to its intensity. And
indeed it was an occasion to remember. To behold two such women, either
of whom might be considered the model of her time, face to face
and drawn up in evident antagonism, was a sight to move the dullest
sensibilities. But there was something more in this scene than that. It
was the shock of all the most passionate emotions of the human soul;
the meeting of waters of whose depth and force I could only guess by the
effect. Eleanore was the first to recover. Drawing back with the cold
haughtiness which, alas, I had almost forgotten in the display of later
and softer emotions, she exclaimed:

"There is something better than sympathy, and that is justice"; and
turned, as if to go. "I will confer with you in the reception room, Mr.
Raymond."

But Mary, springing forward, caught her back with one powerful hand.
"No," she cried, "you shall confer with _me!_ I have something to say to
you, Eleanore Leavenworth." And, taking her stand in the centre of the
room, she waited.

I glanced at Eleanore, saw this was no place for me, and hastily
withdrew. For ten long minutes I paced the floor of the reception room,
a prey to a thousand doubts and conjectures. What was the secret of this
home? What had given rise to the deadly mistrust continually manifested
between these cousins, fitted by nature for the completest companionship
and the most cordial friendship? It was not a thing of to-day or
yesterday. No sudden flame could awake such concentrated heat of emotion
as that of which I had just been the unwilling witness. One must go
farther back than this murder to find the root of a mistrust so great
that the struggle it caused made itself felt even where I stood, though
nothing but the faintest murmur came to my ears through the closed
doors.

Presently the drawing-room curtain was raised, and Mary's voice was
heard in distinct articulation.

"The same roof can never shelter us both after this. To-morrow, you or I
find another home." And, blushing and panting, she stepped into the
hall and advanced to where I stood. But at the first sight of my face,
a change came over her; all her pride seemed to dissolve, and, flinging
out her hands, as if to ward off scrutiny, she fled from my side, and
rushed weeping up-stairs.

I was yet laboring under the oppression caused by this painful
termination of the strange scene when the parlor curtain was again
lifted, and Eleanore entered the room where I was. Pale but calm,
showing no evidences of the struggle she had just been through, unless
by a little extra weariness about the eyes, she sat down by my side,
and, meeting my gaze with one unfathomable in its courage, said after
a pause: "Tell me where I stand; let me know the worst at once; I fear
that I have not indeed comprehended my own position."

Rejoiced to hear this acknowledgment from her lips, I hastened to
comply. I began by placing before her the whole case as it appeared
to an unprejudiced person; enlarged upon the causes of suspicion, and
pointed out in what regard some things looked dark against her, which
perhaps to her own mind were easily explainable and of small account;
tried to make her see the importance of her decision, and finally wound
up with an appeal. Would she not confide in me?

"But I thought you were satisfied?" she tremblingly remarked.

"And so I am; but I want the world to be so, too."

"Ah; now you ask too much! The finger of suspicion never forgets the way
it has once pointed," she sadly answered. "My name is tainted forever."

"And you will submit to this, when a word--"

"I am thinking that any word of mine now would make very little
difference," she murmured.

I looked away, the vision of Mr. Fobbs, in hiding behind the curtains of
the opposite house, recurring painfully to my mind.

"If the affair looks as bad as you say it does," she pursued, "it is
scarcely probable that Mr. Gryce will care much for any interpretation
of mine in regard to the matter."

"Mr. Gryce would be glad to know where you procured that key, if only to
assist him in turning his inquiries in the right direction."

She did not reply, and my spirits sank in renewed depression.

"It is worth your while to satisfy him," I pursued; "and though it may
compromise some one you desire to shield----"

She rose impetuously. "I shall never divulge to any one how I came in
possession of that key." And sitting again, she locked her hands in
fixed resolve before her.

I rose in my turn and paced the floor, the fang of an unreasoning
jealousy striking deep into my heart.

"Mr. Raymond, if the worst should come, and all who love me should plead
on bended knees for me to tell, I will never do it."

"Then," said I, determined not to disclose my secret thought, but
equally resolved to find out if possible her motive for this silence,
"you desire to defeat the cause of justice."

She neither spoke nor moved.

"Miss Leavenworth," I now said, "this determined shielding of another at
the expense of your own good name is no doubt generous of you; but
your friends and the lovers of truth and justice cannot accept such a
sacrifice."

She started haughtily. "Sir!" she said.

"If you will not assist us," I went on calmly, but determinedly, "we
must do without your aid. After the scene I have just witnessed above;
after the triumphant conviction which you have forced upon me, not only
of your innocence, but your horror of the crime and its consequences, I
should feel myself less than a man if I did not sacrifice even your own
good opinion, in urging your cause, and clearing your character from
this foul aspersion."

Again that heavy silence.

"What do you propose to do?" she asked, at last.

Crossing the room, I stood before her. "I propose to relieve you utterly
and forever from suspicion, by finding out and revealing to the world
the true culprit."

I expected to see her recoil, so positive had I become by this time
as to who that culprit was. But instead of that, she merely folded her
hands still more tightly and exclaimed:

"I doubt if you will be able to do that, Mr. Raymond."

"Doubt if I will be able to put my finger upon the guilty man, or doubt
if I will be able to bring him to justice?"

"I doubt," she said with strong effort, "if any one ever knows who is
the guilty person in this case."

"There is one who knows," I said with a desire to test her.

"One?"

"The girl Hannah is acquainted with the mystery of that night's evil
doings, Miss Leavenworth. Find Hannah, and we find one who can point out
to us the assassin of your uncle."

"That is mere supposition," she said; but I saw the blow had told.

"Your cousin has offered a large reward for the girl, and the whole
country is on the lookout. Within a week we shall see her in our midst."

A change took place in her expression and bearing.

"The girl cannot help me," she said.

Baffled by her manner, I drew back. "Is there anything or anybody that
can?"

She slowly looked away.

"Miss Leavenworth," I continued with renewed earnestness, "you have no
brother to plead with you, you have no mother to guide you; let me then
entreat, in default of nearer and dearer friends, that you will rely
sufficiently upon me to tell me one thing."

"What is it?" she asked.

"Whether you took the paper imputed to you from the library table?"

She did not instantly respond, but sat looking earnestly before her with
an intentness which seemed to argue that she was weighing the question
as well as her reply. Finally, turning toward me, she said:

"In answering you, I speak in confidence. Mr. Raymond, I did."

Crushing back the sigh of despair that arose to my lips, I went on.

"I will not inquire what the paper was,"--she waved her hand
deprecatingly,--"but this much more you will tell me. Is that paper
still in existence?"

She looked me steadily in the face.

"It is not."

I could with difficulty forbear showing my disappointment. "Miss
Leavenworth," I now said, "it may seem cruel for me to press you at this
time; nothing less than my strong realization of the peril in which you
stand would induce me to run the risk of incurring your displeasure by
asking what under other circumstances would seem puerile and insulting
questions. You have told me one thing which I strongly desired to know;
will you also inform me what it was you heard that night while sitting
in your room, between the time of Mr. Harwell's going up-stairs and the
closing of the library door, of which you made mention at the inquest?"

I had pushed my inquiries too far, and I saw it immediately.

"Mr. Raymond," she returned, "influenced by my desire not to appear
utterly ungrateful to you, I have been led to reply in confidence to one
of your urgent appeals; but I can go no further. Do not ask me to."

Stricken to the heart by her look of reproach, I answered with some
sadness that her wishes should be respected. "Not but what I intend to
make every effort in my power to discover the true author of this crime.
That is a sacred duty which I feel myself called upon to perform; but I
will ask you no more questions, nor distress you with further appeals.
What is done shall be done without your assistance, and with no other
hope than that in the event of my success you will acknowledge my
motives to have been pure and my action disinterested."

"I am ready to acknowledge that now," she began, but paused and looked
with almost agonized entreaty in my face. "Mr. Raymond, cannot you leave
things as they are? Won't you? I don't ask for assistance, nor do I want
it; I would rather----"

But I would not listen. "Guilt has no right to profit by the generosity
of the guiltless. The hand that struck this blow shall not be
accountable for the loss of a noble woman's honor and happiness as well.

"I shall do what I can, Miss Leavenworth."

As I walked down the avenue that night, feeling like an adventurous
traveller that in a moment of desperation has set his foot upon a plank
stretching in narrow perspective over a chasm of immeasurable depth,
this problem evolved itself from the shadows before me: How, with no
other clue than the persuasion that Eleanore Leavenworth was engaged in
shielding another at the expense of her own good name, I was to
combat the prejudices of Mr. Gryce, find out the real assassin of Mr.
Leavenworth, and free an innocent woman from the suspicion that had, not
without some show of reason, fallen upon her?



BOOK II. HENRY CLAVERING



XIV. MR. GRYCE AT HOME


    "Nay, but hear me."
        Measure for Measure.

THAT the guilty person for whom Eleanore Leavenworth stood ready to
sacrifice herself was one for whom she had formerly cherished affection,
I could no longer doubt; love, or the strong sense of duty growing out
of love, being alone sufficient to account for such determined action.
Obnoxious as it was to all my prejudices, one name alone, that of the
commonplace secretary, with his sudden heats and changeful manners, his
odd ways and studied self-possession, would recur to my mind whenever I
asked myself who this person could be.

Not that, without the light which had been thrown upon the affair by
Eleanore's strange behavior, I should have selected this man as one in
any way open to suspicion; the peculiarity of his manner at the inquest
not being marked enough to counteract the improbability of one in his
relations to the deceased finding sufficient motive for a crime so
manifestly without favorable results to himself. But if love had entered
as a factor into the affair, what might not be expected? James Harwell,
simple amanuensis to a retired tea-merchant, was one man; James Harwell,
swayed by passion for a woman beautiful as Eleanore Leavenworth, was
another; and in placing him upon the list of those parties open to
suspicion I felt I was only doing what was warranted by a proper
consideration of probabilities.

But, between casual suspicion and actual proof, what a gulf! To believe
James Harwell capable of guilt, and to find evidence enough to accuse
him of it, were two very different things. I felt myself instinctively
shrink from the task, before I had fully made up my mind to attempt it;
some relenting thought of his unhappy position, if innocent, forcing
itself upon me, and making my very distrust of him seem personally
ungenerous if not absolutely unjust. If I had liked the man better, I
should not have been so ready to look upon him with doubt.

But Eleanore must be saved at all hazards. Once delivered up to the
blight of suspicion, who could tell what the result might be; the arrest
of her person perhaps,--a thing which, once accomplished, would cast a
shadow over her young life that it would take more than time to dispel.
The accusation of an impecunious secretary would be less horrible than
this. I determined to make an early call upon Mr. Gryce.

Meanwhile the contrasted pictures of Eleanore standing with her hand
upon the breast of the dead, her face upraised and mirroring a glory,
I could not recall without emotion; and Mary, fleeing a short half-hour
later indignantly from her presence, haunted me and kept me awake long
after midnight. It was like a double vision of light and darkness that,
while contrasting, neither assimilated nor harmonized. I could not flee
from it. Do what I would, the two pictures followed me, filling my soul
with alternate hope and distrust, till I knew not whether to place my
hand with Eleanore on the breast of the dead, and swear implicit faith
in her truth and purity, or to turn my face like Mary, and fly from what
I could neither comprehend nor reconcile.

Expectant of difficulty, I started next morning upon my search for Mr.
Gryce, with strong determination not to allow myself to become flurried
by disappointment nor discouraged by premature failure. My business was
to save Eleanore Leavenworth; and to do that, it was necessary for me to
preserve, not only my equanimity, but my self-possession. The worst
fear I anticipated was that matters would reach a crisis before I could
acquire the right, or obtain the opportunity, to interfere. However, the
fact of Mr. Leavenworth's funeral being announced for that day gave
me some comfort in that direction; my knowledge of Mr. Gryce being
sufficient, as I thought, to warrant me in believing he would wait till
after that ceremony before proceeding to extreme measures.

I do not know that I had any very definite ideas of what a detective's
home should be; but when I stood before the neat three-story brick house
to which I had been directed, I could not but acknowledge there was
something in the aspect of its half-open shutters, over closely drawn
curtains of spotless purity, highly suggestive of the character of its
inmate.

A pale-looking youth, with vivid locks of red hair hanging straight down
over either ear, answered my rather nervous ring. To my inquiry as to
whether Mr. Gryce was in, he gave a kind of snort which might have meant
no, but which I took to mean yes.

"My name is Raymond, and I wish to see him."

He gave me one glance that took in every detail of my person and
apparel, and pointed to a door at the head of the stairs. Not waiting
for further directions, I hastened up, knocked at the door he had
designated, and went in. The broad back of Mr. Gryce, stooping above a
desk that might have come over in the _Mayflower,_ confronted me.

"Well!" he exclaimed; "this is an honor." And rising, he opened with a
squeak and shut with a bang the door of an enormous stove that occupied
the centre of the room. "Rather chilly day, eh?"

"Yes," I returned, eyeing him closely to see if he was in a
communicative mood. "But I have had but little time to consider the
state of the weather. My anxiety in regard to this murder----"

"To be sure," he interrupted, fixing his eyes upon the poker, though
not with any hostile intention, I am sure. "A puzzling piece of business
enough. But perhaps it is an open book to you. I see you have something
to communicate."

"I have, though I doubt if it is of the nature you expect. Mr. Gryce,
since I saw you last, my convictions upon a certain point have been
strengthened into an absolute belief. The object of your suspicions is
an innocent woman."

If I had expected him to betray any surprise at this, I was destined to
be disappointed. "That is a very pleasing belief," he observed. "I honor
you for entertaining it, Mr. Raymond."

I suppressed a movement of anger. "So thoroughly is it mine," I went on,
in the determination to arouse him in some way, "that I have come here
to-day to ask you in the name of justice and common humanity to suspend
action in that direction till we can convince ourselves there is no
truer scent to go upon."

But there was no more show of curiosity than before. "Indeed!" he cried;
"that is a singular request to come from a man like you."

I was not to be discomposed, "Mr. Gryce," I went on, "a woman's name,
once tarnished, remains so forever. Eleanore Leavenworth has too many
noble traits to be thoughtlessly dealt with in so momentous a crisis. If
you will give me your attention, I promise you shall not regret it."

He smiled, and allowed his eyes to roam from the poker to the arm of my
chair. "Very well," he remarked; "I hear you; say on."

I drew my notes from my pocketbook, and laid them on the table.

"What! memoranda?" he exclaimed. "Unsafe, very; never put your plans on
paper."

Taking no heed of the interruption, I went on.

"Mr. Gryce, I have had fuller opportunities than yourself for studying
this woman. I have seen her in a position which no guilty person could
occupy, and I am assured, beyond all doubt, that not only her hands, but
her heart, are pure from this crime. She may have some knowledge of its
secrets; that I do not presume to deny. The key seen in her possession
would refute me if I did. But what if she has? You can never wish to see
so lovely a being brought to shame for withholding information which she
evidently considers it her duty to keep back, when by a little patient
finesse we may succeed in our purposes without it."

"But," interposed the detective, "say this is so; how are we to arrive
at the knowledge we want without following out the only clue which has
yet been given us?"

"You will never reach it by following out any clue given you by Eleanore
Leavenworth."

His eyebrows lifted expressively, but he said nothing.

"Miss Eleanore Leavenworth has been used by some one acquainted with her
firmness, generosity, and perhaps love. Let us discover who possesses
sufficient power over her to control her to this extent, and we find the
man we seek."

"Humph!" came from Mr. Gryce's compressed lips, and no more.

Determined that he should speak, I waited.

"You have, then, some one in your mind"; he remarked at last, almost
flippantly.

"I mention no names," I returned. "All I want is further time."

"You are, then, intending to make a personal business of this matter?"

"I am."

He gave a long, low whistle. "May I ask," he inquired at length,
"whether you expect to work entirely by yourself; or whether, if a
suitable coadjutor were provided, you would disdain his assistance and
slight his advice?"

"I desire nothing more than to have you for my colleague."

The smile upon his face deepened ironically. "You must feel very sure of
yourself!" said he.

"I am very sure of Miss Leavenworth."

The reply seemed to please him. "Let us hear what you propose doing."

I did not immediately answer. The truth was, I had formed no plans.

"It seems to me," he continued, "that you have undertaken a rather
difficult task for an amateur. Better leave it to me, Mr. Raymond;
better leave it to me."

"I am sure," I returned, "that nothing would please me better----"

"Not," he interrupted, "but that a word from you now and then would
be welcome. I am not an egotist. I am open to suggestions: as, for
instance, now, if you could conveniently inform me of all you have
yourself seen and heard in regard to this matter, I should be most happy
to listen."

Relieved to find him so amenable, I asked myself what I really had to
tell; not so much that he would consider vital. However, it would not do
to hesitate now.

"Mr. Gryce," said I, "I have but few facts to add to those already known
to you. Indeed, I am more moved by convictions than facts. That Eleanore
Leavenworth never committed this crime, I am assured. That, on the other
hand, the real perpetrator is known to her, I am equally certain;
and that for some reason she considers it a sacred duty to shield the
assassin, even at the risk of her own safety, follows as a matter
of course from the facts. Now, with such data, it cannot be a very
difficult task for you or me to work out satisfactorily, to our own
minds at least, who this person can be. A little more knowledge of the
family--"

"You know nothing of its secret history, then?"

"Nothing."

"Do not even know whether either of these girls is engaged to be
married?"

"I do not," I returned, wincing at this direct expression of my own
thoughts.

He remained a moment silent. "Mr. Raymond," he cried at last, "have
you any idea of the disadvantages under which a detective labors? For
instance, now, you imagine I can insinuate myself into all sorts of
society, perhaps; but you are mistaken. Strange as it may appear, I have
never by any possibility of means succeeded with one class of persons at
all. I cannot pass myself off for a gentleman. Tailors and barbers are
no good; I am always found out."

He looked so dejected I could scarcely forbear smiling, notwithstanding
my secret care and anxiety.

"I have even employed a French valet, who understood dancing and
whiskers; but it was all of no avail. The first gentleman I approached
stared at me,--real gentleman, I mean, none of your American
dandies,--and I had no stare to return; I had forgotten that emergency
in my confabs with Pierre Catnille Marie Make-face."

Amused, but a little discomposed by this sudden turn in the
conversation, I looked at Mr. Gryce inquiringly.

"Now you, I dare say, have no trouble? Was born one, perhaps. Can even
ask a lady to dance without blushing, eh?"

"Well,--" I commenced.

"Just so," he replied; "now, I can't. I can enter a house, bow to the
mistress of it, let her be as elegant as she will, so long as I have
a writ of arrest in my hand, or some such professional matter upon my
mind; but when it comes to visiting in kid gloves, raising a glass of
champagne in response to a toast--and such like, I am absolutely good
for nothing." And he plunged his two hands into his hair, and looked
dolefully at the head of the cane I carried in my hand. "But it is much
the same with the whole of us. When we are in want of a gentleman to
work for us, we have to go outside of our profession."

I began to see what he was driving at; but held my peace, vaguely
conscious I was likely to prove a necessity to him, after all.

"Mr. Raymond," he now said, almost abruptly; "do you know a gentleman by
the name of Clavering residing at present at the Hoffman House?"

"Not that I am aware of."

"He is very polished in his manners; would you mind making his
acquaintance?"

I followed Mr. Gryce's example, and stared at the chimney-piece. "I
cannot answer till I understand matters a little better," I returned at
length.

"There is not much to understand. Mr. Henry Clavering, a gentleman and
a man of the world, resides at the Hoffman House. He is a stranger in
town, without being strange; drives, walks, smokes, but never visits;
looks at the ladies, but is never seen to bow to one. In short, a
person whom it is desirable to know; but whom, being a proud man,
with something of the old-world prejudice against Yankee freedom and
forwardness, I could no more approach in the way of acquaintance than I
could the Emperor of Austria."

"And you wish----"

"He would make a very agreeable companion for a rising young lawyer
of good family and undoubted respectability. I have no doubt, if you
undertook to cultivate him, you would find him well worth the trouble."

"But----"

"Might even desire to take him into familiar relations; to confide in
him, and----"

"Mr. Gryce," I hastily interrupted; "I can never consent to plot for any
man's friendship for the sake of betraying him to the police."

"It is essential to your plans to make the acquaintance of Mr.
Clavering," he dryly replied.

"Oh!" I returned, a light breaking in upon me; "he has some connection
with this case, then?"

Mr. Gryce smoothed his coat-sleeve thoughtfully. "I don't know as it
will be necessary for you to betray him. You wouldn't object to being
introduced to him?"

"No."

"Nor, if you found him pleasant, to converse with him?"

"No."

"Not even if, in the course of conversation, you should come across
something that might serve as a clue in your efforts to save Eleanore
Leavenworth?"

The no I uttered this time was less assured; the part of a spy was the
very last one I desired to play in the coming drama.

"Well, then," he went on, ignoring the doubtful tone in which my assent
had been given, "I advise you to immediately take up your quarters at
the Hoffman House."

"I doubt if that would do," I said. "If I am not mistaken, I have
already seen this gentleman, and spoken to him."

"Where?"

"Describe him first."

"Well, he is tall, finely formed, of very upright carriage, with a
handsome dark face, brown hair streaked with gray, a piercing eye, and a
smooth address. A very imposing personage, I assure you."

"I have reason to think I have seen him," I returned; and in a few words
told him when and where.

"Humph!" said he at the conclusion; "he is evidently as much interested
in you as we are in him.

"How 's that? I think I see," he added, after a moment's thought.
"Pity you spoke to him; may have created an unfavorable impression; and
everything depends upon your meeting without any distrust."

He rose and paced the floor.

"Well, we must move slowly, that is all. Give him a chance to see you in
other and better lights. Drop into the Hoffman House reading-room.
Talk with the best men you meet while there; but not too much, or too
indiscriminately. Mr. Clavering is fastidious, and will not feel honored
by the attentions of one who is hail-fellow-well-met with everybody.
Show yourself for what you are, and leave all advances to him; he 'll
make them."

"Supposing we are under a mistake, and the man I met on the corner of
Thirty-seventh Street was not Mr. Clavering?"

"I should be greatly surprised, that's all."

Not knowing what further objection to make, I remained silent.

"And this head of mine would have to put on its thinking-cap," he
pursued jovially.

"Mr. Gryce," I now said, anxious to show that all this talk about an
unknown party had not served to put my own plans from my mind, "there is
one person of whom we have not spoken."

"No?" he exclaimed softly, wheeling around until his broad back
confronted me. "And who may that be?"

"Why, who but Mr.--" I could get no further. What right had I to
mention any man's name in this connection, without possessing sufficient
evidence against him to make such mention justifiable? "I beg your
pardon," said I; "but I think I will hold to my first impulse, and speak
no names."

"Harwell?" he ejaculated easily.

The quick blush rising to my face gave an involuntary assent.

"I see no reason why we shouldn't speak of him," he went on; "that is,
if there is anything to be gained by it."

"His testimony at the inquest was honest, you think?"

"It has not been disproved."

"He is a peculiar man."

"And so am I."

I felt myself slightly nonplussed; and, conscious of appearing at a
disadvantage, lifted my hat from the table and prepared to take my
leave; but, suddenly thinking of Hannah, turned and asked if there was
any news of her.

He seemed to debate with himself, hesitating so long that I began to
doubt if this man intended to confide in me, after all, when suddenly he
brought his two hands down before him and exclaimed vehemently:

"The evil one himself is in this business! If the earth had opened and
swallowed up this girl, she couldn't have more effectually disappeared."

I experienced a sinking of the heart. Eleanore had said: "Hannah can do
nothing for me." Could it be that the girl was indeed gone, and forever?

"I have innumerable agents at work, to say nothing of the general
public; and yet not so much as a whisper has come to me in regard to her
whereabouts or situation. I am only afraid we shall find her floating in
the river some fine morning, without a confession in her pocket."

"Everything hangs upon that girl's testimony," I remarked.

He gave a short grunt. "What does Miss Leavenworth say about it?"

"That the girl cannot help her."

I thought he looked a trifle surprised at this, but he covered it with a
nod and an exclamation. "She must be found for all that," said he, "and
shall, if I have to send out Q."

"Q?"

"An agent of mine who is a living interrogation point; so we call him
_Q,_ which is short for query." Then, as I turned again to go: "When the
contents of the will are made known, come to me."

The will! I had forgotten the will.



XV. WAYS OPENING


    "It is not and it cannot come to good."
        Hamlet.

I ATTENDED the funeral of Mr. Leavenworth, but did not see the
ladies before or after the ceremony. I, however, had a few moments'
conversation with Mr. Harwell; which, without eliciting anything new,
provided me with food for abundant conjecture. For he had asked, almost
at first greeting, if I had seen the _Telegram_ of the night before;
and when I responded in the affirmative, turned such a look of mingled
distress and appeal upon me, I was tempted to ask how such a frightful
insinuation against a young lady of reputation and breeding could ever
have got into the papers. It was his reply that struck me.

"That the guilty party might be driven by remorse to own himself the
true culprit."

A curious remark to come from a person who had no knowledge or
suspicion of the criminal and his character; and I would have pushed
the conversation further, but the secretary, who was a man of few words,
drew off at this, and could be induced to say no more. Evidently it was
my business to cultivate Mr. Clavering, or any one else who could throw
any light upon the secret history of these girls.

That evening I received notice that Mr. Veeley had arrived home, but
was in no condition to consult with me upon so painful a subject as
the murder of Mr. Leavenworth. Also a line from Eleanore, giving me her
address, but requesting me at the same time not to call unless I had
something of importance to communicate, as she was too ill to receive
visitors. The little note affected me. Ill, alone, and in a strange
home,--'twas pitiful!

The next day, pursuant to the wishes of Mr. Gryce, in I stepped into the
Hoffman House, and took a seat in the reading room. I had been there but
a few moments when a gentleman entered whom I immediately recognized
as the same I had spoken to on the corner of Thirty-seventh Street
and Sixth Avenue. He must have remembered me also, for he seemed to be
slightly embarrassed at seeing me; but, recovering himself, took up a
paper and soon became to all appearance lost in its contents, though I
could feel his handsome black eye upon me, studying my features,
figure, apparel, and movements with a degree of interest which equally
astonished and disconcerted me. I felt that it would be injudicious on
my part to return his scrutiny, anxious as I was to meet his eye and
learn what emotion had so fired his curiosity in regard to a perfect
stranger; so I rose, and, crossing to an old friend of mine who sat at
a table opposite, commenced a desultory conversation, in the course of
which I took occasion to ask if he knew who the handsome stranger was.
Dick Furbish was a society man, and knew everybody.

"His name is Clavering, and he comes from London. I don't know anything
more about him, though he is to be seen everywhere except in private
houses. He has not been received into society yet; waiting for letters
of introduction, perhaps."

"A gentleman?"

"Undoubtedly."

"One you speak to?"

"Oh, yes; I talk to him, but the conversation is very one-sided."

I could not help smiling at the grimace with which Dick accompanied this
remark. "Which same goes to prove," he went on, "that he is the real
thing."

Laughing outright this time, I left him, and in a few minutes sauntered
from the room.

As I mingled again with the crowd on Broadway, I found myself wondering
immensely over this slight experience. That this unknown gentleman from
London, who went everywhere except into private houses, could be in
any way connected with the affair I had so at heart, seemed not only
improbable but absurd; and for the first time I felt tempted to doubt
the sagacity of Mr. Gryce in recommending him to my attention.

The next day I repeated the experiment, but with no greater success
than before. Mr. Clavering came into the room, but, seeing me, did
not remain. I began to realize it was no easy matter to make his
acquaintance. To atone for my disappointment, I called on Mary
Leavenworth in the evening. She received me with almost a sister-like
familiarity.

"Ah," she cried, after introducing me to an elderly lady at her
side,--some connection of the family, I believe, who had come to remain
with her for a while,--"you are here to tell me Hannah is found; is it
not so?"

I shook my head, sorry to disappoint her. "No," said I; "not yet."

"But Mr. Gryce was here to-day, and he told me he hoped she would be
heard from within twenty-four hours."

"Mr. Gryce here!"

"Yes; came to report how matters were progressing,--not that they seemed
to have advanced very far."

"You could hardly have expected that yet. You must not be so easily
discouraged."

"But I cannot help it; every day, every hour that passes in this
uncertainty, is like a mountain weight here"; and she laid one trembling
hand upon her bosom. "I would have the whole world at work. I would
leave no stone unturned; I----"

"What would you do?"

"Oh, I don't know," she cried, her whole manner suddenly changing;
"nothing, perhaps." Then, before I could reply to this: "Have you seen
Eleanore to-day?"

I answered in the negative.

She did not seem satisfied, but waited till her friend left the room
before saying more. Then, with an earnest look, inquired if I knew
whether Eleanore was well.

"I fear she is not," I returned.

"It is a great trial to me, Eleanore being away. Not," she resumed,
noting, perhaps, my incredulous look, "that I would have you think I
wish to disclaim my share in bringing about the present unhappy state
of things. I am willing to acknowledge I was the first to propose a
separation. But it is none the easier to bear on that account."

"It is not as hard for you as for her," said I.

"Not as hard? Why? because she is left comparatively poor, while I am
rich--is that what you would say? Ah," she went on, without waiting for
my answer, "would I could persuade Eleanore to share my riches with me!
Willingly would I bestow upon her the half I have received; but I fear
she could never be induced to accept so much as a dollar from me."

"Under the circumstances it would be better for her not to."

"Just what I thought; yet it would ease me of a great weight if she
would. This fortune, suddenly thrown into my lap, sits like an incubus
upon me, Mr. Raymond. When the will was read to-day which makes me
possessor of so much wealth, I could not but feel that a heavy, blinding
pall had settled upon me, spotted with blood and woven of horrors. Ah,
how different from the feelings with which I have been accustomed to
anticipate this day! For, Mr. Raymond," she went on, with a hurried
gasp, "dreadful as it seems now, I have been reared to look forward to
this hour with pride, if not with actual longing. Money has been made
so much of in my small world. Not that I wish in this evil time of
retribution to lay blame upon any one; least of all upon my uncle; but
from the day, twelve years ago, when for the first time he took us in
his arms, and looking down upon our childish faces, exclaimed: 'The
light-haired one pleases me best; she shall be my heiress,' I have
been petted, cajoled, and spoiled; called little princess, and uncle's
darling, till it is only strange I retain in this prejudiced breast any
of the impulses of generous womanhood; yes, though I was aware from the
first that whim alone had raised this distinction between myself and
cousin; a distinction which superior beauty, worth, or accomplishments
could never have drawn; Eleanore being more than my equal in all these
things." Pausing, she choked back the sudden sob that rose in her
throat, with an effort at self-control which was at once touching and
admirable. Then, while my eyes stole to her face, murmured in a low,
appealing voice: "If I have faults, you see there is some slight excuse
for them; arrogance, vanity, and selfishness being considered in the gay
young heiress as no more than so many assertions of a laudable dignity.
Ah! ah," she bitterly exclaimed "money alone has been the ruin of us
all!" Then, with a falling of her voice: "And now it has come to me
with its heritage of evil, and I--I would give it all for--But this is
weakness! I have no right to afflict you with my griefs. Pray forget all
I have said, Mr. Raymond, or regard my complaints as the utterances of
an unhappy girl loaded down with sorrows and oppressed by the weight of
many perplexities and terrors."

"But I do not wish to forget," I replied. "You have spoken some good
words, manifested much noble emotion. Your possessions cannot but prove
a blessing to you if you enter upon them with such feelings as these."

But, with a quick gesture, she ejaculated: "Impossible! they cannot
prove a blessing." Then, as if startled at her own words, bit her lip
and hastily added: "Very great wealth is never a blessing.

"And now," said she, with a total change of manner, "I wish to
address you on a subject which may strike you as ill-timed, but which,
nevertheless, I must mention, if the purpose I have at heart is ever to
be accomplished. My uncle, as you know, was engaged at the time of his
death in writing a book on Chinese customs and prejudices. It was a work
which he was anxious to see published, and naturally I desire to carry
out his wishes; but, in order to do so, I find it necessary not only
to interest myself in the matter now,--Mr. Harwell's services being
required, and it being my wish to dismiss that gentleman as soon as
possible--but to find some one competent to supervise its completion.
Now I have heard,--I have been told,--that you were the one of all
others to do this; and though it is difficult if not improper for me to
ask so great a favor of one who but a week ago was a perfect stranger to
me, it would afford me the keenest pleasure if you would consent to look
over this manuscript and tell me what remains to be done."

The timidity with which these words were uttered proved her to be in
earnest, and I could not but wonder at the strange coincidence of this
request with my secret wishes; it having been a question with me for
some time how I was to gain free access to this house without in any way
compromising either its inmates or myself. I did not know then that Mr.
Gryce had been the one to recommend me to her favor in this respect.
But, whatever satisfaction I may have experienced, I felt myself in duty
bound to plead my incompetence for a task so entirely out of the line
of my profession, and to suggest the employment of some one better
acquainted with such matters than myself. But she would not listen to
me.

"Mr. Harwell has notes and memoranda in plenty," she exclaimed, "and
can give you all the information necessary. You will have no difficulty;
indeed, you will not."

"But cannot Mr. Harwell himself do all that is requisite? He seems to be
a clever and diligent young man."

But she shook her head. "He thinks he can; but I know uncle never
trusted him with the composition of a single sentence."

"But perhaps he will not be pleased,--Mr. Harwell, I mean--with the
intrusion of a stranger into his work."

She opened her eyes with astonishment. "That makes no difference," she
cried. "Mr. Harwell is in my pay, and has nothing to say about it.
But he will not object. I have already consulted him, and he expresses
himself as satisfied with the arrangement."

"Very well," said I; "then I will promise to consider the subject. I
can at any rate look over the manuscript and give you my opinion of its
condition."

"Oh, thank you," said she, with the prettiest gesture of satisfaction.
"How kind you are, and what can I ever do to repay you? But would you
like to see Mr. Harwell himself?" and she moved towards the door; but
suddenly paused, whispering, with a short shudder of remembrance: "He is
in the library; do you mind?"

Crushing down the sick qualm that arose at the mention of that spot, I
replied in the negative.

"The papers are all there, and he says he can work better in his old
place than anywhere else; but if you wish, I can call him down."

But I would not listen to this, and myself led the way to the foot of
the stairs.

"I have sometimes thought I would lock up that room," she hurriedly
observed; "but something restrains me. I can no more do so than I can
leave this house; a power beyond myself forces me to confront all its
horrors. And yet I suffer continually from terror. Sometimes, in the
darkness of the night--But I will not distress you. I have already said
too much; come," and with a sudden lift of the head she mounted the
stairs.

Mr. Harwell was seated, when we entered that fatal room, in the one
chair of all others I expected to see unoccupied; and as I beheld his
meagre figure bending where such a little while before his eyes had
encountered the outstretched form of his murdered employer, I could not
but marvel over the unimaginativeness of the man who, in the face of
such memories, could not only appropriate that very spot for his own
use, but pursue his avocations there with so much calmness and evident
precision. But in another moment I discovered that the disposition of
the light in the room made that one seat the only desirable one for his
purpose; and instantly my wonder changed to admiration at this quiet
surrender of personal feeling to the requirements of the occasion.

He looked up mechanically as we came in, but did not rise, his
countenance wearing the absorbed expression which bespeaks the
preoccupied mind.

"He is utterly oblivious," Mary whispered; "that is a way of his.
I doubt if he knows who or what it is that has disturbed him." And,
advancing into the room, she passed across his line of vision, as if
to call attention to herself, and said: "I have brought Mr. Raymond
up-stairs to see you, Mr. Harwell. He has been so kind as to accede to
my wishes in regard to the completion of the manuscript now before you."

Slowly Mr. Harwell rose, wiped his pen, and put it away; manifesting,
however, a reluctance in doing so that proved this interference to be
in reality anything but agreeable to him. Observing this, I did not wait
for him to speak, but took up the pile of manuscript, arranged in one
mass on the table, saying:

"This seems to be very clearly written; if you will excuse me, I will
glance over it and thus learn something of its general character."

He bowed, uttered a word or so of acquiescence, then, as Mary left the
room, awkwardly reseated himself, and took up his pen.

Instantly the manuscript and all connected with it vanished from my
thoughts; and Eleanore, her situation, and the mystery surrounding
this family, returned upon me with renewed force. Looking the secretary
steadily in the face, I remarked:

"I am very glad of this opportunity of seeing you a moment alone, Mr.
Harwell, if only for the purpose of saying----"

"Anything in regard to the murder?"

"Yes," I began.

"Then you must pardon me," he respectfully but firmly replied. "It is
a disagreeable subject which I cannot bear to think of, much less
discuss."

Disconcerted and, what was more, convinced of the impossibility of
obtaining any information from this man, I abandoned the attempt; and,
taking up the manuscript once more, endeavored to master in some small
degree the nature of its contents. Succeeding beyond my hopes, I opened
a short conversation with him in regard to it, and finally, coming to
the conclusion I could accomplish what Miss Leavenworth desired, left
him and descended again to the reception room.

When, an hour or so later, I withdrew from the house, it was with the
feeling that one obstacle had been removed from my path. If I failed
in what I had undertaken, it would not be from lack of opportunity of
studying the inmates of this dwelling.



XVI. THE WILL OF A MILLIONAIRE


    "Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
     Which we ascribe to Heaven."
        All's Well that Ends Well.

THE next morning's _Tribune_ contained a synopsis of Mr. Leavenworth's
will. Its provisions were a surprise to me; for, while the bulk of his
immense estate was, according to the general understanding, bequeathed
to his niece, Mary, it appeared by a codicil, attached to his will some
five years before, that Eleanore was not entirely forgotten, she having
been made the recipient of a legacy which, if not large, was at least
sufficient to support her in comfort. After listening to the various
comments of my associates on the subject, I proceeded to the house
of Mr. Gryce, in obedience to his request to call upon him as soon as
possible after the publication of the will.

"Good-morning," he remarked as I entered, but whether addressing me or
the frowning top of the desk before which he was sitting it would be
difficult to say. "Won't you sit?" nodding with a curious back movement
of his head towards a chair in his rear.

I drew up the chair to his side. "I am curious to know," I remarked,
"what you have to say about this will, and its probable effect upon the
matters we have in hand."

"What is your own idea in regard to it?"

"Well, I think upon the whole it will make but little difference in
public opinion. Those who thought Eleanore guilty before will feel that
they possess now greater cause than ever to doubt her innocence; while
those who have hitherto hesitated to suspect her will not consider
that the comparatively small amount bequeathed her would constitute an
adequate motive for so great a crime."

"You have heard men talk; what seems to be the general opinion among
those you converse with?"

"That the motive of the tragedy will be found in the partiality shown in
so singular a will, though how, they do not profess to know."

Mr. Gryce suddenly became interested in one of the small drawers before
him.

"And all this has not set you thinking?" said he.

"Thinking," returned I. "I don't know what you mean. I am sure I have
done nothing but think for the last three days. I----"

"Of course--of course," he cried. "I didn't mean to say anything
disagreeable. And so you have seen Mr. Clavering?"

"Just seen him; no more."

"And are you going to assist Mr. Harwell in finishing Mr. Leavenworth's
book?"

"How did you learn that?"

He only smiled.

"Yes," said I; "Miss Leavenworth has requested me to do her that little
favor."

"She is a queenly creature!" he exclaimed in a burst of enthusiasm.
Then, with an instant return to his business-like tone: "You are going
to have opportunities, Mr. Raymond. Now there are two things I want you
to find out; first, what is the connection between these ladies and Mr.
Clavering----"

"There is a connection, then?"

"Undoubtedly. And secondly, what is the cause of the unfriendly feeling
which evidently exists between the cousins."

I drew back and pondered the position offered me. A spy in a fair
woman's house! How could I reconcile it with my natural instincts as a
gentleman?

"Cannot you find some one better adapted to learn these secrets for
you?" I asked at length. "The part of a spy is anything but agreeable to
my feelings, I assure you."

Mr. Gryce's brows fell.

"I will assist Mr. Harwell in his efforts to arrange Mr. Leavenworth's
manuscript for the press," I said; "I will give Mr. Clavering an
opportunity to form my acquaintance; and I will listen, if Miss
Leavenworth chooses to make me her confidant in any way. But any
hearkening at doors, surprises, unworthy feints or ungentlemanly
subterfuges, I herewith disclaim as outside of my province; my task
being to find out what I can in an open way, and yours to search into
the nooks and corners of this wretched business."

"In other words, you are to play the hound, and I the mole; just so, I
know what belongs to a gentleman."

"And now," said I, "what news of Hannah?"

He shook both hands high in the air. "None."

I cannot say I was greatly surprised, that evening, when, upon
descending from an hour's labor with Mr. Harwell, I encountered Miss
Leavenworth standing at the foot of the stairs. There had been something
in her bearing, the night before, which prepared me for another
interview this evening, though her manner of commencing it was a
surprise. "Mr. Raymond," said she, with an air of marked embarrassment,
"I want to ask you a question. I believe you to be a good man, and I
know you will answer me conscientiously. As a brother would," she added,
lifting her eyes for a moment to my face. "I know it will sound strange;
but remember, I have no adviser but you, and I must ask some one. Mr.
Raymond, do you think a person could do something that was very wrong,
and yet grow to be thoroughly good afterwards?"

"Certainly," I replied; "if he were truly sorry for his fault."

"But say it was more than a fault; say it was an actual harm; would not
the memory of that one evil hour cast a lasting shadow over one's life?"

"That depends upon the nature of the harm and its effect upon others.
If one had irreparably injured a fellow-being, it would be hard for a
person of sensitive nature to live a happy life afterwards; though the
fact of not living a happy life ought to be no reason why one should not
live a good life."

"But to live a good life would it be necessary to reveal the evil you
had done? Cannot one go on and do right without confessing to the world
a past wrong?"

"Yes, unless by its confession he can in some way make reparation."

My answer seemed to trouble her. Drawing back, she stood for one moment
in a thoughtful attitude before me, her beauty shining with almost a
statuesque splendor in the glow of the porcelain-shaded lamp at her
side. Nor, though she presently roused herself, leading the way into the
drawing-room with a gesture that was allurement itself, did she recur to
this topic again; but rather seemed to strive, in the conversation that
followed, to make me forget what had already passed between us. That she
did not succeed, was owing to my intense and unfailing interest in her
cousin.

As I descended the stoop, I saw Thomas, the butler, leaning over the
area gate. Immediately I was seized with an impulse to interrogate him
in regard to a matter which had more or less interested me ever since
the inquest; and that was, who was the Mr. Robbins who had called
upon Eleanore the night of the murder? But Thomas was decidedly
uncommunicative. He remembered such a person called, but could not
describe his looks any further than to say that he was not a small man.

I did not press the matter.



XVII. THE BEGINNING OF GREAT SURPRISES


    "Vous regardez une etoile pour deux motifs, parce qu'elle est
    lumineuse et parce qu'elle est impenetrable. Vous avez aupres
    de vous un plus doux rayonnement et un pas grand mystere, la femme."
        Les Miserables.

AND now followed days in which I seemed to make little or no progress.
Mr. Clavering, disturbed perhaps by my presence, forsook his usual
haunts, thus depriving me of all opportunity of making his acquaintance
in any natural manner, while the evenings spent at Miss Leavenworth's
were productive of little else than constant suspense and uneasiness.

The manuscript required less revision than I supposed. But, in the
course of making such few changes as were necessary, I had ample
opportunity of studying the character of Mr. Harwell. I found him to be
neither more nor less than an excellent amanuensis. Stiff, unbending,
and sombre, but true to his duty and reliable in its performance, I
learned to respect him, and even to like him; and this, too, though I
saw the liking was not reciprocated, whatever the respect may have been.
He never spoke of Eleanore Leavenworth or, indeed, mentioned the family
or its trouble in any way; till I began to feel that all this reticence
had a cause deeper than the nature of the man, and that if he did
speak, it would be to some purpose. This suspicion, of course, kept me
restlessly eager in his presence. I could not forbear giving him sly
glances now and then, to see how he acted when he believed himself
unobserved; but he was ever the same, a passive, diligent, unexcitable
worker.

This continual beating against a stone wall, for thus I regarded it,
became at last almost unendurable. Clavering shy, and the secretary
unapproachable--how was I to gain anything? The short interviews I had
with Mary did not help matters. Haughty, constrained, feverish, pettish,
grateful, appealing, everything at once, and never twice the same, I
learned to dread, even while I coveted, an interview. She appeared to be
passing through some crisis which occasioned her the keenest suffering.
I have seen her, when she thought herself alone, throw up her hands
with the gesture which we use to ward off a coming evil or shut out some
hideous vision. I have likewise beheld her standing with her proud head
abased, her nervous hands drooping, her whole form sinking and inert, as
if the pressure of a weight she could neither upbear nor cast aside
had robbed her even of the show of resistance. But this was only once.
Ordinarily she was at least stately in her trouble. Even when the
softest appeal came into her eyes she stood erect, and retained her
expression of conscious power. Even the night she met me in the hall,
with feverish cheeks and lips trembling with eagerness, only to turn and
fly again without giving utterance to what she had to say, she comported
herself with a fiery dignity that was well nigh imposing.

That all this meant something, I was sure; and so I kept my patience
alive with the hope that some day she would make a revelation. Those
quivering lips would not always remain closed; the secret involving
Eleanore's honor and happiness would be divulged by this restless being,
if by no one else. Nor was the memory of that extraordinary, if not
cruel, accusation I had heard her make enough to destroy this hope--for
hope it had grown to be--so that I found myself insensibly shortening
my time with Mr. Harwell in the library, and extending my _tete-a-tete_
visits with Mary in the reception room, till the imperturbable secretary
was forced to complain that he was often left for hours without work.

But, as I say, days passed, and a second Monday evening came round
without seeing me any further advanced upon the problem I had set myself
to solve than when I first started upon it two weeks before. The subject
of the murder had not even been broached; nor was Hannah spoken of,
though I observed the papers were not allowed to languish an instant
upon the stoop; mistress and servants betraying equal interest in their
contents. All this was strange to me. It was as if you saw a group of
human beings eating, drinking, and sleeping upon the sides of a volcano
hot with a late eruption and trembling with the birth of a new one. I
longed to break this silence as we shiver glass: by shouting the name
of Eleanore through those gilded rooms and satin-draped vestibules. But
this Monday evening I was in a calmer mood. I was determined to expect
nothing from my visits to Mary Leavenworth's house; and entered it upon
the eve in question with an equanimity such as I had not experienced
since the first day I passed under its unhappy portals.

But when, upon nearing the reception room, I saw Mary pacing the floor
with the air of one who is restlessly awaiting something or somebody,
I took a sudden resolution, and, advancing towards her, said: "Do I see
you alone, Miss Leavenworth?"

She paused in her hurried action, blushed and bowed, but, contrary to
her usual custom, did not bid me enter.

"Will it be too great an intrusion on my part, if I venture to come in?"
I asked.

Her glance flashed uneasily to the clock, and she seemed about to excuse
herself, but suddenly yielded, and, drawing up a chair before the fire,
motioned me towards it. Though she endeavored to appear calm, I vaguely
felt I had chanced upon her in one of her most agitated moods, and that
I had only to broach the subject I had in mind to behold her haughtiness
disappear before me like melting snow. I also felt that I had but few
moments in which to do it. I accordingly plunged immediately into the
subject.

"Miss Leavenworth," said I, "in obtruding upon you to-night, I have a
purpose other than that of giving myself a pleasure. I have come to make
an appeal."

Instantly I saw that in some way I had started wrong. "An appeal to make
to me?" she asked, breathing coldness from every feature of her face.

"Yes," I went on, with passionate recklessness. "Balked in every other
endeavor to learn the truth, I have come to you, whom I believe to be
noble at the core, for that help which seems likely to fail us in every
other direction: for the word which, if it does not absolutely save your
cousin, will at least put us upon the track of what will."

"I do not understand what you mean," she protested, slightly shrinking.

"Miss Leavenworth," I pursued, "it is needless for me to tell you in
what position your cousin stands. You, who remember both the form and
drift of the questions put to her at the inquest, comprehend it all
without any explanation from me. But what you may not know is this, that
unless she is speedily relieved from the suspicion which, justly or not,
has attached itself to her name, the consequences which such suspicion
entails must fall upon her, and----"

"Good God!" she cried; "you do not mean she will be----"

"Subject to arrest? Yes."

It was a blow. Shame, horror, and anguish were in every line of her
white face. "And all because of that key!" she murmured.

"Key? How did you know anything about a key?"

"Why," she cried, flushing painfully; "I cannot say; didn't you tell
me?"

"No," I returned.

"The papers, then?"

"The papers have never mentioned it."

She grew more and more agitated. "I thought every one knew. No, I did
not, either," she avowed, in a sudden burst of shame and penitence. "I
knew it was a secret; but--oh, Mr. Raymond, it was Eleanore herself who
told me."

"Eleanore?"

"Yes, that last evening she was here; we were together in the
drawing-room."

"What did she tell?"

"That the key to the library had been seen in her possession."

I could scarcely conceal my incredulity. Eleanore, conscious of the
suspicion with which her cousin regarded her, inform that cousin of a
fact calculated to add weight to that suspicion? I could not believe
this.

"But you knew it?" Mary went on. "I have revealed nothing I ought to
have kept secret?"

"No," said I; "and, Miss Leavenworth, it is this thing which makes
your cousin's position absolutely dangerous. It is a fact that,
left unexplained, must ever link her name with infamy; a bit of
circumstantial evidence no sophistry can smother, and no denial
obliterate. Only her hitherto spotless reputation, and the efforts of
one who, notwithstanding appearances, believes in her innocence, keeps
her so long from the clutch of the officers of justice. That key, and
the silence preserved by her in regard to it, is sinking her slowly into
a pit from which the utmost endeavors of her best friends will soon be
inadequate to extricate her."

"And you tell me this----"

"That you may have pity on the poor girl, who will not have pity on
herself, and by the explanation of a few circumstances, which cannot be
mysteries to you, assist in bringing her from under the dreadful shadow
that threatens to overwhelm her."

"And would you insinuate, sir," she cried, turning upon me with a look
of great anger, "that I know any more than you do of this matter? that
I possess any knowledge which I have not already made public concerning
the dreadful tragedy which has transformed our home into a desert, our
existence into a lasting horror? Has the blight of suspicion fallen upon
me, too; and have you come to accuse me in my own house----"

"Miss Leavenworth," I entreated; "calm yourself. I accuse you of
nothing. I only desire you to enlighten me as to your cousin's probable
motive for this criminating silence. You cannot be ignorant of it. You
are her cousin, almost her sister, have been at all events her daily
companion for years, and must know for whom or for what she seals her
lips, and conceals facts which, if known, would direct suspicion to the
real criminal--that is, if you really believe what you have hitherto
stated, that your cousin is an innocent woman."

She not making any answer to this, I rose and confronted her. "Miss
Leavenworth, do you believe your cousin guiltless of this crime, or
not?"

"Guiltless? Eleanore? Oh! my God; if all the world were only as innocent
as she!"

"Then," said I, "you must likewise believe that if she refrains from
speaking in regard to matters which to ordinary observers ought to be
explained, she does it only from motives of kindness towards one less
guiltless than herself."

"What? No, no; I do not say that. What made you think of any such
explanation?"

"The action itself. With one of Eleanore's character, such conduct
as hers admits of no other construction. Either she is mad, or she is
shielding another at the expense of herself."

Mary's lip, which had trembled, slowly steadied itself. "And whom
have you settled upon, as the person for whom Eleanore thus sacrifices
herself?"

"Ah," said I, "there is where I seek assistance from you. With your
knowledge of her history----"

But Mary Leavenworth, sinking haughtily back into her chair, stopped
me with a quiet gesture. "I beg your pardon," said she; "but you make a
mistake. I know little or nothing of Eleanore's personal feelings. The
mystery must be solved by some one besides me."

I changed my tactics.

"When Eleanore confessed to you that the missing key had been seen in
her possession, did she likewise inform you where she obtained it, and
for what reason she was hiding it?"

"No."

"Merely told you the fact, without any explanation?"

"Yes."

"Was not that a strange piece of gratuitous information for her to
give one who, but a few hours before, had accused her to the face of
committing a deadly crime?"

"What do you mean?"' she asked, her voice suddenly sinking.

"You will not deny that you were once, not only ready to believe her
guilty, but that you actually charged her with having perpetrated this
crime."

"Explain yourself!" she cried.

"Miss Leavenworth, do you not remember what you said in that room
upstairs, when you were alone with your cousin on the morning of the
inquest, just before Mr. Gryce and myself entered your presence?"

Her eyes did not fall, but they filled with sudden terror.

"You heard?" she whispered.

"I could not help it. I was just outside the door, and----"

"What did you hear?"

I told her.

"And Mr. Gryce?"

"He was at my side."

It seemed as if her eyes would devour my face. "Yet nothing was said
when you came in?"

"No."

"You, however, have never forgotten it?"

"How could we, Miss Leavenworth?"

Her head fell forward in her hands, and for one wild moment she seemed
lost in despair. Then she roused, and desperately exclaimed:

"And that is why you come here to-night. With that sentence written upon
your heart, you invade my presence, torture me with questions----"

"Pardon me," I broke in; "are my questions such as you, with reasonable
regard for the honor of one with whom you are accustomed to associate,
should hesitate to answer? Do I derogate from my manhood in asking you
how and why you came to make an accusation of so grave a nature, at a
time when all the circumstances of the case were freshly before you,
only to insist fully as strongly upon your cousin's innocence when
you found there was even more cause for your imputation than you had
supposed?"

She did not seem to hear me. "Oh, my cruel fate!" she murmured. "Oh, my
cruel fate!"

"Miss Leavenworth," said I, rising, and taking my stand before her;
"although there is a temporary estrangement between you and your cousin,
you cannot wish to seem her enemy. Speak, then; let me at least know the
name of him for whom she thus immolates herself. A hint from you----"

But rising, with a strange look, to her feet, she interrupted me with a
stern remark: "If you do not know, I cannot inform you; do not ask me,
Mr. Raymond." And she glanced at the clock for the second time.

I took another turn.

"Miss Leavenworth, you once asked me if a person who had committed a
wrong ought necessarily to confess it; and I replied no, unless by the
confession reparation could be made. Do you remember?"

Her lips moved, but no words issued from them.

"I begin to think," I solemnly proceeded, following the lead of her
emotion, "that confession is the only way out of this difficulty: that
only by the words you can utter Eleanore can be saved from the doom that
awaits her. Will you not then show yourself a true woman by responding
to my earnest entreaties?"

I seemed to have touched the right chord; for she trembled, and a look
of wistfulness filled her eyes. "Oh, if I could!" she murmured.

"And why can you not? You will never be happy till you do. Eleanore
persists in silence; but that is no reason why you should emulate her
example. You only make her position more doubtful by it."

"I know it; but I cannot help myself. Fate has too strong a hold upon
me; I cannot break away."

"That is not true. Any one can escape from bonds imaginary as yours."

"No, no," she protested; "you do not understand."

"I understand this: that the path of rectitude is a straight one, and
that he who steps into devious byways is going astray."

A flicker of light, pathetic beyond description, flashed for a moment
across her face; her throat rose as with one wild sob; her lips opened;
she seemed yielding, when--A sharp ring at the front door-bell!

"Oh," she cried, sharply turning, "tell him I cannot see him; tell
him----"

"Miss Leavenworth," said I, taking her by both hands, "never mind the
door; never mind anything but this. I have asked you a question which
involves the mystery of this whole affair; answer me, then, for your
soul's sake; tell me, what the unhappy circumstances were which could
induce you--"

But she tore her hands from mine. "The door!" she cried; "it will open,
and--"

Stepping into the hall, I met Thomas coming up the basement stairs. "Go
back," said I; "I will call you when you are wanted."

With a bow he disappeared.

"You expect me to answer," she exclaimed, when I re-entered, "now, in a
moment? I cannot."

"But----"

"Impossible!" fastening her gaze upon the front door.

"Miss Leavenworth!"

She shuddered.

"I fear the time will never come, if you do not speak now."

"Impossible," she reiterated.

Another twang at the bell.

"You hear!" said she.

I went into the hall and called Thomas. "You may open the door now,"
said I, and moved to return to her side.

But, with a gesture of command, she pointed up-stairs. "Leave me!" and
her glance passed on to Thomas, who stopped where he was.

"I will see you again before I go," said I, and hastened up-stairs.

Thomas opened the door. "Is Miss Leavenworth in?" I heard a rich,
tremulous voice inquire.

"Yes, sir," came in the butler's most respectful and measured accents,
and, leaning over the banisters I beheld, to my amazement, the form of
Mr. Clavering enter the front hall and move towards the reception room.



XVIII. ON THE STAIRS


    "You cannot _say_ I did it."
        Macbeth.

EXCITED, tremulous, filled with wonder at this unlooked-for event, I
paused for a moment to collect my scattered senses, when the sound of
a low, monotonous voice breaking upon my ear from the direction of the
library, I approached and found Mr. Harwell reading aloud from his late
employer's manuscript. It would be difficult for me to describe the
effect which this simple discovery made upon me at this time. There,
in that room of late death, withdrawn from the turmoil of the world, a
hermit in his skeleton-lined cell, this man employed himself in reading
and rereading, with passive interest, the words of the dead, while above
and below, human beings agonized in doubt and shame. Listening, I heard
these words:

"By these means their native rulers will not only lose their jealous
terror of our institutions, but acquire an actual curiosity in regard to
them."

Opening the door I went in.

"Ah! you are late, sir," was the greeting with which he rose and brought
forward a chair.

My reply was probably inaudible, for he added, as he passed to his own
seat:

"I am afraid you are not well."

I roused myself.

"I am not ill." And, pulling the papers towards me, I began looking them
over. But the words danced before my eyes, and I was obliged to give up
all attempt at work for that night.

"_I_ fear I am unable to assist you this evening, Mr. Harwell. The fact
is, I find it difficult to give proper attention to this business while
the man who by a dastardly assassination has made it necessary goes
unpunished."

The secretary in his turn pushed the papers aside, as if moved by a
sudden distaste of them, but gave me no answer.

"You told me, when you first came to me with news of this fearful
tragedy, that it was a mystery; but it is one which must be solved,
Mr. Harwell; it is wearing out the lives of too many whom we love and
respect."

The secretary gave me a look. "Miss Eleanore?" he murmured.

"And Miss Mary," I went on; "myself, you, and many others."

"You have manifested much interest in the matter from the
beginning,"--he said, methodically dipping his pen into the ink.

I stared at him in amazement.

"And you," said I; "do you take no interest in that which involves not
only the safety, but the happiness and honor, of the family in which you
have dwelt so long?"

He looked at me with increased coldness. "I have no wish to discuss
this subject. I believe I have before prayed you to spare me its
introduction." And he arose.

"But I cannot consider your wishes in this regard," I persisted. "If you
know any facts, connected with this affair, which have not yet been made
public, it is manifestly your duty to state them. The position which
Miss Eleanore occupies at this time is one which should arouse the sense
of justice in every true breast; and if you----"

"If I knew anything which would serve to release her from her unhappy
position, Mr. Raymond, I should have spoken long ago."

I bit my lip, weary of these continual bafflings, and rose also.

"If you have nothing more to say," he went on, "and feel utterly
disinclined to work, why, I should be glad to excuse myself, as I have
an engagement out."

"Do not let me keep you," I said, bitterly. "I can take care of myself."

He turned upon me with a short stare, as if this display of feeling
was well nigh incomprehensible to him; and then, with a quiet, almost
compassionate bow left the room. I heard him go up-stairs, felt the
jar when his room door closed, and sat down to enjoy my solitude. But
solitude in that room was unbearable. By the time Mr. Harwell again
descended, I felt I could remain no longer, and, stepping into the hall,
told him that if he had no objection I would accompany him for a short
stroll.

He bowed a stiff assent, and hastened before me down the stairs. By the
time I had closed the library door, he was half-way to the foot, and I
was just remarking to myself upon the unpliability of his figure and the
awkwardness of his carriage, as seen from my present standpoint, when
suddenly I saw him stop, clutch the banister at his side, and hang there
with a startled, deathly expression upon his half-turned countenance,
which fixed me for an instant where I was in breathless astonishment,
and then caused me to rush down to his side, catch him by the arm, and
cry:

"What is it? what is the matter?"

But, thrusting out his hand, he pushed me upwards. "Go back!" he
whispered, in a voice shaking with intensest emotion, "go back." And
catching me by the arm, he literally pulled me up the stairs. Arrived
at the top, he loosened his grasp, and leaning, quivering from head to
foot, over the banisters, glared below.

"Who is that?" he cried. "Who is that man? What is his name?"

Startled in my turn, I bent beside him, and saw Henry Clavering come out
of the reception room and cross the hall.

"That is Mr. Clavering," I whispered, with all the self-possession I
could muster; "do you know him?"

Mr. Harwell fell back against the opposite wall. "Clavering, Clavering,"
he murmured with quaking lips; then, suddenly bounding forward, clutched
the railing before him, and fixing me with his eyes, from which all the
stoic calmness had gone down forever in flame and frenzy, gurgled into
my ear: "You want to know who the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth is, do
you? Look there, then: that is the man, Clavering!" And with a leap, he
bounded from my side, and, swaying like a drunken man, disappeared from
my gaze in the hall above.

My first impulse was to follow him. Rushing upstairs, I knocked at the
door of his room, but no response came to my summons. I then called
his name in the hall, but without avail; he was determined not to show
himself. Resolved that he should not thus escape me, I returned to the
library, and wrote him a short note, in which I asked for an explanation
of his tremendous accusation, saying I would be in my rooms the next
evening at six, when I should expect to see him. This done I descended
to rejoin Mary.

But the evening was destined to be full of disappointments. She had
retired to her room while I was in the library, and I lost the interview
from which I expected so much. "The woman is slippery as an eel," I
inwardly commented, pacing the hall in my chagrin. "Wrapped in mystery,
she expects me to feel for her the respect due to one of frank and open
nature."

I was about to leave the house, when I saw Thomas descending the stairs
with a letter in his hand.

"Miss Leavenworth's compliments, sir, and she is too fatigued to remain
below this evening."

I moved aside to read the note he handed me, feeling a little
conscience-stricken as I traced the hurried, trembling handwriting
through the following words:


    "You ask more than I can give. Matters must be received as they are
    without explanation from me. It is the grief of my life to deny you;
    but I have no choice. God forgive us all and keep us from despair.

    "M."

And below:


    "As we cannot meet now without embarrassment, it is better we should
    bear our burdens in silence and apart. Mr. Harwell will visit you.
    Farewell!"

As I was crossing Thirty-second Street, I heard a quick footstep behind
me, and turning, saw Thomas at my side. "Excuse me, sir," said he, "but
I have something a little particular to say to you. When you asked me
the other night what sort of a person the gentleman was who called
on Miss Eleanore the evening of the murder, I didn't answer you as I
should. The fact is, the detectives had been talking to me about that
very thing, and I felt shy; but, sir, I know you are a friend of the
family, and I want to tell you now that that same gentleman, whoever
he was,--Mr. Robbins, he called himself then,--was at the house again
tonight, sir, and the name he gave me this time to carry to Miss
Leavenworth was Clavering. Yes, sir," he went on, seeing me start; "and,
as I told Molly, he acts queer for a stranger. When he came the other
night, he hesitated a long time before asking for Miss Eleanore, and
when I wanted his name, took out a card and wrote on it the one I told
you of, sir, with a look on his face a little peculiar for a caller;
besides----"

"Well?"

"Mr. Raymond," the butler went on, in a low, excited voice, edging up
very closely to me in the darkness. "There is something I have never
told any living being but Molly, sir, which may be of use to those as
wishes to find out who committed this murder."

"A fact or a suspicion?" I inquired.

"A fact, sir; which I beg your pardon for troubling you with at this
time; but Molly will give me no rest unless I speak of it to you or Mr.
Gryce; her feelings being so worked up on Hannah's account, whom we all
know is innocent, though folks do dare to say as how she must be guilty
just because she is not to be found the minute they want her."

"But this fact?" I urged.

"Well, the fact is this. You see--I would tell Mr. Gryce," he resumed,
unconscious of my anxiety, "but I have my fears of detectives, sir; they
catch you up so quick at times, and seem to think you know so much more
than you really do."

"But this fact," I again broke in.

"O yes, sir; the fact is, that that night, the one of the murder you
know, I saw Mr. Clavering, Robbins, or whatever his name is, enter the
house, but neither I nor any one else saw him go out of it; nor do I
know that he _did."_

"What do you mean?"

"Well, sir, what I mean is this. When I came down from Miss Eleanore and
told Mr. Robbins, as he called himself at that time, that my mistress
was ill and unable to see him (the word she gave me, sir, to deliver)
Mr. Robbins, instead of bowing and leaving the house like a gentleman,
stepped into the reception room and sat down. He may have felt sick, he
looked pale enough; at any rate, he asked me for a glass of water.
Not knowing any reason then for suspicionating any one's actions, I
immediately went down to the kitchen for it, leaving him there in the
reception room alone. But before I could get it, I heard the front door
close. 'What's that?' said Molly, who was helping me, sir. 'I don't
know,' said I, 'unless it's the gentleman has got tired of waiting and
gone.' 'If he's gone, he won't want the water,' she said. So down I set
the pitcher, and up-stairs I come; and sure enough he was gone, or so
I thought then. But who knows, sir, if he was not in that room or the
drawing-room, which was dark that night, all the time I was a-shutting
up of the house?"

I made no reply to this; I was more startled than I cared to reveal.

"You see, sir, I wouldn't speak of such a thing about any person that
comes to see the young ladies; but we all know some one who was in the
house that night murdered my master, and as it was not Hannah----"

"You say that Miss Eleanore refused to see him," I interrupted, in the
hope that the simple suggestion would be enough to elicitate further
details of his interview with Eleanore.

"Yes, sir. When she first looked at the card, she showed a little
hesitation; but in a moment she grew very flushed in the face, and bade
me say what I told you. I should never have thought of it again if I had
not seen him come blazoning and bold into the house this evening, with
a new name on his tongue. Indeed, and I do not like to think any evil of
him now; but Molly would have it I should speak to you, sir, and ease my
mind,--and that is all, sir."

When I arrived home that night, I entered into my memorandum-book a
new list of suspicious circumstances, but this time they were under the
caption "C" instead of "E."



XIX. IN MY OFFICE


    "Something between an hindrance and a help."
        Wordsworth.

THE next day as, with nerves unstrung and an exhausted brain, I entered
my office, I was greeted by the announcement:

"A gentleman, sir, in your private room--been waiting some time, very
impatient."

Weary, in no mood to hold consultation with clients new or old, I
advanced with anything but an eager step towards my room, when, upon
opening the door, I saw--Mr. Clavering.

Too much astounded for the moment to speak, I bowed to him silently,
whereupon he approached me with the air and dignity of a highly bred
gentleman, and presented his card, on which I saw written, in free and
handsome characters, his whole name, Henry Ritchie Clavering. After this
introduction of himself, he apologized for making so unceremonious
a call, saying, in excuse, that he was a stranger in town; that his
business was one of great urgency; that he had casually heard honorable
mention of me as a lawyer and a gentleman, and so had ventured to seek
this interview on behalf of a friend who was so unfortunately situated
as to require the opinion and advice of a lawyer upon a question which
not only involved an extraordinary state of facts, but was of a nature
peculiarly embarrassing to him, owing to his ignorance of American laws,
and the legal bearing of these facts upon the same.

Having thus secured my attention, and awakened my curiosity, he asked me
if I would permit him to relate his story. Recovering in a measure from
my astonishment, and subduing the extreme repulsion, almost horror,
I felt for the man, I signified my assent; at which he drew from his
pocket a memorandum-book from which he read in substance as follows:

"An Englishman travelling in this country meets, at a fashionable
watering-place, an American girl, with whom he falls deeply in love, and
whom, after a few days, he desires to marry. Knowing his position to be
good, his fortune ample, and his intentions highly honorable, he offers
her his hand, and is accepted. But a decided opposition arising in the
family to the match, he is compelled to disguise his sentiments, though
the engagement remained unbroken. While matters were in this uncertain
condition, he received advices from England demanding his instant
return, and, alarmed at the prospect of a protracted absence from the
object of his affections, he writes to the lady, informing her of
the circumstances, and proposing a secret marriage. She consents with
stipulations; the first of which is, that he should leave her instantly
upon the conclusion of the ceremony, and the second, that he should
intrust the public declaration of the marriage to her. It was not
precisely what he wished, but anything which served to make her his
own was acceptable at such a crisis. He readily enters into the plans
proposed. Meeting the lady at a parsonage, some twenty miles from the
watering-place at which she was staying, he stands up with her before
a Methodist preacher, and the ceremony of marriage is performed. There
were two witnesses, a hired man of the minister, called in for the
purpose, and a lady friend who came with the bride; but there was no
license, and the bride had not completed her twenty-first year. Now, was
that marriage legal? If the lady, wedded in good faith upon that day by
my friend, chooses to deny that she is his lawful wife, can he hold
her to a compact entered into in so informal a manner? In short, Mr.
Raymond, is my friend the lawful husband of that girl or not?"

While listening to this story, I found myself yielding to feelings
greatly in contrast to those with which I greeted the relator but a
moment before. I became so interested in his "friend's" case as to
quite forget, for the time being, that I had ever seen or heard of Henry
Clavering; and after learning that the marriage ceremony took place in
the State of New York, I replied to him, as near as I can remember, in
the following words:

"In this State, and I believe it to be American law, marriage is a
civil contract, requiring neither license, priest, ceremony, nor
certificate--and in some cases witnesses are not even necessary to give
it validity. Of old, the modes of getting a wife were the same as those
of acquiring any other species of property, and they are not materially
changed at the present time. It is enough that the man and woman say to
each other, 'From this time we are married,' or, 'You are now my wife,'
or, 'my husband,' as the case may be. The mutual consent is all that is
necessary. In fact, you may contract marriage as you contract to lend a
sum of money, or to buy the merest trifle."

"Then your opinion is----"

"That upon your statement, your friend is the lawful husband of the lady
in question; presuming, of course, that no legal disabilities of either
party existed to prevent such a union. As to the young lady's age, I
will merely say that any fourteen-year-old girl can be a party to a
marriage contract."

Mr. Clavering bowed, his countenance assuming a look of great
satisfaction. "I am very glad to hear this," said he; "my friend's
happiness is entirely involved in the establishment of his marriage."

He appeared so relieved, my curiosity was yet further aroused. I
therefore said: "I have given you my opinion as to the legality of this
marriage; but it may be quite another thing to prove it, should the same
be contested."

He started, cast me an inquiring look, and murmured:

"True."

"Allow me to ask you a few questions. Was the lady married under her own
name?"

"She was."

"The gentleman?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did the lady receive a certificate?"

"She did."

"Properly signed by the minister and witnesses?"

He bowed his head in assent.

"Did she keep this?"

"I cannot say; but I presume she did."

"The witnesses were----"

"A hired man of the minister----"

"Who can be found?"

"Who cannot be found."

"Dead or disappeared?"

"The minister is dead, the man has disappeared."

"The minister dead!"

"Three months since."

"And the marriage took place when?"

"Last July."

"The other witness, the lady friend, where is she?"

"She can be found; but her action is not to be depended upon."

"Has the gentleman himself no proofs of this marriage?"

Mr. Clavering shook his head. "He cannot even prove he was in the town
where it took place on that particular day."

"The marriage certificate was, however, filed with the clerk of the
town?" said I.

"It was not, sir."

"How was that?"

"I cannot say. I only know that my friend has made inquiry, and that no
such paper is to be found."

I leaned slowly back and looked at him. "I do not wonder your friend is
concerned in regard to his position, if what you hint is true, and the
lady seems disposed to deny that any such ceremony ever took place.
Still, if he wishes to go to law, the Court may decide in his favor,
though I doubt it. His sworn word is all he would have to go upon, and
if she contradicts his testimony under oath, why the sympathy of a jury
is, as a rule, with the woman."

Mr. Clavering rose, looked at me with some earnestness, and finally
asked, in a tone which, though somewhat changed, lacked nothing of its
former suavity, if I would be kind enough to give him in writing that
portion of my opinion which directly bore upon the legality of the
marriage; that such a paper would go far towards satisfying his friend
that his case had been properly presented; as he was aware that no
respectable lawyer would put his name to a legal opinion without first
having carefully arrived at his conclusions by a thorough examination of
the law bearing upon the facts submitted.

This request seeming so reasonable, I unhesitatingly complied with it,
and handed him the opinion. He took it, and, after reading it carefully
over, deliberately copied it into his memorandum-book. This done, he
turned towards me, a strong, though hitherto subdued, emotion showing
itself in his countenance.

"Now, sir," said he, rising upon me to the full height of his majestic
figure, "I have but one more request to make; and that is, that you will
receive back this opinion into your own possession, and in the day you
think to lead a beautiful woman to the altar, pause and ask yourself:
'Am I sure that the hand I clasp with such impassioned fervor is free?
Have I any certainty for knowing that it has not already been given
away, like that of the lady whom, in this opinion of mine, I have
declared to be a wedded wife according to the laws of my country? '"

"Mr. Clavering!"

But he, with an urbane bow, laid his hand upon the knob of the door. "I
thank you for your courtesy, Mr. Raymond, and I bid you good-day. I hope
you will have no need of consulting that paper before I see you again."
And with another bow, he passed out.

It was the most vital shock I had yet experienced; and for a moment
I stood paralyzed. Me! me! Why should he mix me up with the affair
unless--but I would not contemplate that possibility. Eleanore married,
and to this man? No, no; anything but that! And yet I found myself
continually turning the supposition over in my mind until, to escape
the torment of my own conjectures, I seized my hat, and rushed into
the street in the hope of finding him again and extorting from him an
explanation of his mysterious conduct. But by the time I reached the
sidewalk, he was nowhere to be seen. A thousand busy men, with their
various cares and purposes, had pushed themselves between us, and I was
obliged to return to my office with my doubts unsolved.

I think I never experienced a longer day; but it passed, and at five
o'clock I had the satisfaction of inquiring for Mr. Clavering at the
Hoffman House. Judge of my surprise when I learned that his visit to
my office was his last action before taking passage upon the steamer
leaving that day for Liverpool; that he was now on the high seas, and
all chance of another interview with him was at an end. I could scarcely
believe the fact at first; but after a talk with the cabman who
had driven him off to my office and thence to the steamer, I became
convinced. My first feeling was one of shame. I had been brought face to
face with the accused man, had received an intimation from him that he
was not expecting to see me again for some time, and had weakly gone on
attending to my own affairs and allowed him to escape, like the simple
tyro that I was. My next, the necessity of notifying Mr. Gryce of this
man's departure. But it was now six o'clock, the hour set apart for my
interview with Mr. Harwell. I could not afford to miss that, so merely
stopping to despatch a line to Mr. Gryce, in which I promised to visit
him that evening, I turned my steps towards home. I found Mr. Harwell
there before me.



XX. "TRUEMAN! TRUEMAN! TRUEMAN!"


    "Often do the spirits
    Of great events stride on before the events,
    And in to-day already walks to-morrow."
        Coleridge.

INSTANTLY a great dread seized me. What revelations might not this man
be going to make! But I subdued the feeling; and, greeting him with what
cordiality I could, settled myself to listen to his explanations.

But Trueman Harwell had no explanations to give, or so it seemed; on
the contrary, he had come to apologize for the very violent words he had
used the evening before; words which, whatever their effect upon me, he
now felt bound to declare had been used without sufficient basis in fact
to make their utterance of the least importance.

"But you must have thought you had grounds for so tremendous an
accusation, or your act was that of a madman."

His brow wrinkled heavily, and his eyes assumed a very gloomy
expression. "It does not follow," he returned. "Under the pressure of
surprise, I have known men utter convictions no better founded than mine
without running the risk of being called mad."

"Surprise? Mr. Clavering's face or form must, then, have been known to
you. The mere fact of seeing a strange gentleman in the hall would have
been insufficient to cause you astonishment, Mr. Harwell."

He uneasily fingered the back of the chair before which he stood, but
made no reply.

"Sit down," I again urged, this time with a touch of command in my
voice. "This is a serious matter, and I intend to deal with it as it
deserves. You once said that if you knew anything which might serve
to exonerate Eleanore Leavenworth from the suspicion under which she
stands, you would be ready to impart it."

"Pardon me. I said that if I had ever known anything calculated to
release her from her unhappy position, I would have spoken," he coldly
corrected.

"Do not quibble. You know, and I know, that you are keeping something
back; and I ask you, in her behalf, and in the cause of justice, to tell
me what it is."

"You are mistaken," was his dogged reply. "I have reasons, perhaps, for
certain conclusions I may have drawn; but my conscience will not allow
me in cold blood to give utterance to suspicions which may not only
damage the reputation of an honest man, but place me in the unpleasant
position of an accuser without substantial foundation for my
accusations."

"You occupy that position already," I retorted, with equal coldness.
"Nothing can make me forget that in my presence you have denounced Henry
Clavering as the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth. You had better explain
yourself, Mr. Harwell."

He gave me a short look, but moved around and took the chair. "You have
me at a disadvantage," he said, in a lighter tone. "If you choose to
profit by your position, and press me to disclose the little I know, I
can only regret the necessity under which I lie, and speak."

"Then you are deterred by conscientious scruples alone?"

"Yes, and by the meagreness of the facts at my command."

"I will judge of the facts when I have heard them."

He raised his eyes to mine, and I was astonished to observe a strange
eagerness in their depths; evidently his convictions were stronger
than his scruples. "Mr. Raymond," he began, "you are a lawyer, and
undoubtedly a practical man; but you may know what it is to scent danger
before you see it, to feel influences working in the air over and
about you, and yet be in ignorance of what it is that affects you so
powerfully, till chance reveals that an enemy has been at your side, or
a friend passed your window, or the shadow of death crossed your book as
you read, or mingled with your breath as you slept?"

I shook my head, fascinated by the intensity of his gaze into some sort
of response.

"Then you cannot understand me, or what I have suffered these last three
weeks." And he drew back with an icy reserve that seemed to promise but
little to my now thoroughly awakened curiosity.

"I beg your pardon," I hastened to say; "but the fact of my never having
experienced such sensations does not hinder me from comprehending the
emotions of others more affected by spiritual influences than myself."

He drew himself slowly forward. "Then you will not ridicule me if I say
that upon the eve of Mr. Leavenworth's murder I experienced in a dream
all that afterwards occurred; saw him murdered, saw"--and he clasped
his hands before him, in an attitude inexpressibly convincing, while his
voice sank to a horrified whisper, "saw the face of his murderer!"

I started, looked at him in amazement, a thrill as at a ghostly presence
running through me.

"And was that----" I began.

"My reason for denouncing the man I beheld before me in the hall of
Miss Leavenworth's house last night? It was." And, taking out his
handkerchief, he wiped his forehead, on which the perspiration was
standing in large drops.

"You would then intimate that the face you saw in your dream and the
face you saw in the hall last night were the same?"

He gravely nodded his head.

I drew my chair nearer to his. "Tell me your dream," said I.

"It was the night before Mr. Leavenworth's murder. I had gone to bed
feeling especially contented with myself and the world at large; for,
though my life is anything but a happy one," and he heaved a short sigh,
"some pleasant words had been said to me that day, and I was revelling
in the happiness they conferred, when suddenly a chill struck my heart,
and the darkness which a moment before had appeared to me as the abode
of peace thrilled to the sound of a supernatural cry, and I heard my
name, 'Trueman, Trueman, Trueman,' repeated three times in a voice I did
not recognize, and starting from my pillow beheld at my bedside a woman.
Her face was strange to me," he solemnly proceeded, "but I can give you
each and every detail of it, as, bending above me, she stared into my
eyes with a growing terror that seemed to implore help, though her lips
were quiet, and only the memory of that cry echoed in my ears."

"Describe the face," I interposed.

"It was a round, fair, lady's face. Very lovely in contour, but devoid
of coloring; not beautiful, but winning from its childlike look of
trust. The hair, banded upon the low, broad forehead, was brown; the
eyes, which were very far apart, gray; the mouth, which was its most
charming feature, delicate of make and very expressive. There was
a dimple in the chin, but none in the cheeks. It was a face to be
remembered."

"Go on," said I.

"Meeting the gaze of those imploring eyes, I started up. Instantly the
face and all vanished, and I became conscious, as we sometimes do in
dreams, of a certain movement in the hall below, and the next instant
the gliding figure of a man of imposing size entered the library.
I remember experiencing a certain thrill at this, half terror, half
curiosity, though I seemed to know, as if by intuition, what he was
going to do. Strange to say, I now seemed to change my personality,
and to be no longer a third party watching these proceedings, but Mr.
Leavenworth himself, sitting at his library table and feeling his doom
crawling upon him without capacity for speech or power of movement to
avert it. Though my back was towards the man, I could feel his stealthy
form traverse the passage, enter the room beyond, pass to that stand
where the pistol was, try the drawer, find it locked, turn the key,
procure the pistol, weigh it in an accustomed hand, and advance again.
I could feel each footstep he took as though his feet were in truth upon
my heart, and I remember staring at the table before me as if I expected
every moment to see it run with my own blood. I can see now how the
letters I had been writing danced upon the paper before me, appearing
to my eyes to take the phantom shapes of persons and things long ago
forgotten; crowding my last moments with regrets and dead shames, wild
longings, and unspeakable agonies, through all of which that face, the
face of my former dream, mingled, pale, sweet, and searching, while
closer and closer behind me crept that noiseless foot till I could
feel the glaring of the assassin's eyes across the narrow threshold
separating me from death and hear the click of his teeth as he set his
lips for the final act. Ah!" and the secretary's livid face showed the
touch of awful horror, "what words can describe such an experience as
that? In one moment, all the agonies of hell in the heart and brain,
the next a blank through which I seemed to see afar, and as if suddenly
removed from all this, a crouching figure looking at its work with
starting eyes and pallid back-drawn lips; and seeing, recognize no face
that I had ever known, but one so handsome, so remarkable, so unique in
its formation and character, that it would be as easy for me to mistake
the countenance of my father as the look and figure of the man revealed
to me in my dream."

"And this face?" said I, in a voice I failed to recognize as my own.

"Was that of him whom we saw leave Mary Leavenworth's presence last
night and go down the hall to the front door."



XXI. A PREJUDICE


    "True, I talk of dreams,
     Which are the children of an idle brain
     Begot of nothing but vain phantasy."
        --Romeo and Juliet.

FOR one moment I sat a prey to superstitious horror; then, my natural
incredulity asserting itself, I looked up and remarked:

"You say that all this took place the night previous to the actual
occurrence?"

He bowed his head. "For a warning," he declared.

"But you did not seem to take it as such?"

"No; I am subject to horrible dreams. I thought but little of it in a
superstitious way till I looked next day upon Mr. Leavenworth's dead
body."

"I do not wonder you behaved strangely at the inquest."

"Ah, sir," he returned, with a slow, sad smile; "no one knows what
I suffered in my endeavors not to tell more than I actually knew,
irrespective of my dream, of this murder and the manner of its
accomplishment."

"You believe, then, that your dream foreshadowed the manner of the
murder as well as the fact?"

"I do."

"It is a pity it did not go a little further, then, and tell us how
the assassin escaped from, if not how he entered, a house so securely
fastened."

His face flushed. "That would have been convenient," he repeated.
"Also, if I had been informed where Hannah was, and why a stranger and a
gentleman should have stooped to the committal of such a crime."

Seeing that he was nettled, I dropped my bantering vein. "Why do you
say a stranger?" I asked; "are you so well acquainted with all who visit
that house as to be able to say who are and who are not strangers to the
family?

"I am well acquainted with the faces of their friends, and Henry
Clavering is not amongst the number; but----"

"Were you ever with Mr. Leavenworth," I interrupted, "when he has been
away from home; in the country, for instance, or upon his travels?"

"No." But the negative came with some constraint.

"Yet I suppose he was in the habit of absenting himself from home?"

"Certainly."

"Can you tell me where he was last July, he and the ladies?"

"Yes, sir; they went to R----. The famous watering-place, you know. Ah,"
he cried, seeing a change in my face, "do you think he could have met
them there?"

I looked at him for a moment, then, rising in my turn, stood level with
him, and exclaimed:

"You are keeping something back, Mr. Harwell; you have more knowledge of
this man than you have hitherto given me to understand. What is it?"

He seemed astonished at my penetration, but replied: "I know no more
of the man than I have already informed you; but"--and a burning flush
crossed his face, "if you are determined to pursue this matter--" and he
paused, with an inquiring look.

"I am resolved to find out all I can about Henry Clavering," was my
decided answer.

"Then," said he, "I can tell you this much. Henry Clavering wrote a
letter to Mr. Leavenworth a few days before the murder, which I have
some reason to believe produced a marked effect upon the household."
And, folding his arms, the secretary stood quietly awaiting my next
question.

"How do you know?" I asked.

"I opened it by mistake. I was in the habit of reading Mr. Leavenworth's
business letters, and this, being from one unaccustomed to write to him,
lacked the mark which usually distinguished those of a private nature."

"And you saw the name of Clavering?"

"I did; Henry Ritchie Clavering."

"Did you read the letter?" I was trembling now.

The secretary did not reply.

"Mr. Harwell," I reiterated, "this is no time for false delicacy. Did
you read that letter?"

"I did; but hastily, and with an agitated conscience."

"You can, however, recall its general drift?"

"It was some complaint in regard to the treatment received by him at the
hand of one of Mr. Leavenworth's nieces. I remember nothing more."

"Which niece?"

"There were no names mentioned."

"But you inferred----"

"No, sir; that is just what I did not do. I forced myself to forget the
whole thing."

"And yet you say it produced an effect upon the family?"

"I can see now that it did. None of them have ever appeared quite the
same as before."

"Mr. Harwell," I gravely continued; "when you were questioned as to the
receipt of any letter by Mr. Leavenworth, which might seem in any manner
to be connected with this tragedy, you denied having seen any such; how
was that?"

"Mr. Raymond, you are a gentleman; have a chivalrous regard for the
ladies; do you think you could have brought yourself (even if in your
secret heart you considered some such result possible, which I am not
ready to say I did) to mention, at such a time as that, the receipt of
a letter complaining of the treatment received from one of Mr.
Leavenworth's nieces, as a suspicious circumstance worthy to be taken
into account by a coroner's jury?"

I shook my head. I could not but acknowledge the impossibility.

"What reason had I for thinking that letter was one of importance? I
knew of no Henry Ritchie Clavering."

"And yet you seemed to think it was. I remember you hesitated before
replying."

"It is true; but not as I should hesitate now, if the question were put
to me again."

Silence followed these words, during which I took two or three turns up
and down the room.

"This is all very fanciful," I remarked, laughing in the vain endeavor
to throw off the superstitious horror his words had awakened.

He bent his head in assent. "I know it," said he. "I am practical myself
in broad daylight, and recognize the flimsiness of an accusation based
upon a poor, hardworking secretary's dream, as plainly as you do. This
is the reason I desired to keep from speaking at all; but, Mr. Raymond,"
and his long, thin hand fell upon my arm with a nervous intensity which
gave me almost the sensation of an electrical shock, "if the murderer of
Mr. Leavenworth is ever brought to confess his deed, mark my words, he
will prove to be the man of my dream."

I drew a long breath. For a moment his belief was mine; and a mingled
sensation of relief and exquisite pain swept over me as I thought of the
possibility of Eleanore being exonerated from crime only to be plunged
into fresh humiliation and deeper abysses of suffering.

"He stalks the streets in freedom now," the secretary went on, as if to
himself; "even dares to enter the house he has so wofully desecrated;
but justice is justice and, sooner or later, something will transpire
which will prove to you that a premonition so wonderful as that
I received had its significance; that the voice calling 'Trueman,
Trueman,' was something more than the empty utterances of an excited
brain; that it was Justice itself, calling attention to the guilty."

I looked at him in wonder. Did he know that the officers of justice were
already upon the track of this same Clavering? I judged not from his
look, but felt an inclination to make an effort and see.

"You speak with strange conviction," I said; "but in all probability
you are doomed to be disappointed. So far as we know, Mr. Clavering is a
respectable man."

He lifted his hat from the table. "I do not propose to denounce him;
I do not even propose to speak his name again. I am not a fool, Mr.
Raymond. I have spoken thus plainly to you only in explanation of last
night's most unfortunate betrayal; and while I trust you will regard
what I have told you as confidential, I also hope you will give me
credit for behaving, on the whole, as well as could be expected under
the circumstances." And he held out his hand.

"Certainly," I replied as I took it. Then, with a sudden impulse to
test the accuracy of this story of his, inquired if he had any means of
verifying his statement of having had this dream at the time spoken of:
that is, before the murder and not afterwards.

"No, sir; I know myself that I had it the night previous to that of Mr.
Leavenworth's death; but I cannot prove the fact."

"Did not speak of it next morning to any one?"

"O no, sir; I was scarcely in a position to do so."

"Yet it must have had a great effect upon you, unfitting you for
work----"

"Nothing unfits me for work," was his bitter reply.

"I believe you," I returned, remembering his diligence for the last few
days. "But you must at least have shown some traces of having passed an
uncomfortable night. Have you no recollection of any one speaking to you
in regard to your appearance the next morning?"

"Mr. Leavenworth may have done so; no one else would be likely to
notice." There was sadness in the tone, and my own voice softened as I
said:

"I shall not be at the house to-night, Mr. Harwell; nor do I know when
I shall return there. Personal considerations keep me from Miss
Leavenworth's presence for a time, and I look to you to carry on the
work we have undertaken without my assistance, unless you can bring it
here----"

"I can do that."

"I shall expect you, then, to-morrow evening."

"Very well, sir"; and he was going, when a sudden thought seemed to
strike him. "Sir," he said, "as we do not wish to return to this subject
again, and as I have a natural curiosity in regard to this man, would
you object to telling me what you know of him? You believe him to be a
respectable man; are you acquainted with him, Mr. Raymond?"

"I know his name, and where he resides."

"And where is that?"

"In London; he is an Englishman."

"Ah!" he murmured, with a strange intonation.

"Why do you say that?"

He bit his lip, looked down, then up, finally fixed his eyes on mine,
and returned, with marked emphasis: "I used an exclamation, sir, because
I was startled."

"Startled?"

"Yes; you say he is an Englishman. Mr. Leavenworth had the most bitter
antagonism to the English. It was one of his marked peculiarities. He
would never be introduced to one if he could help it."

It was my turn to look thoughtful.

"You know," continued the secretary, "that Mr. Leavenworth was a man who
carried his prejudices to the extreme. He had a hatred for the English
race amounting to mania. If he had known the letter I have mentioned was
from an Englishman, I doubt if he would have read it. He used to say he
would sooner see a daughter of his dead before him than married to an
Englishman."

I turned hastily aside to hide the effect which this announcement made
upon me.

"You think I am exaggerating," he said. "Ask Mr. Veeley."

"No," I replied. "I have no reason for thinking so."

"He had doubtless some cause for hating the English with which we are
unacquainted," pursued the secretary. "He spent some time in Liverpool
when young, and had, of course, many opportunities for studying their
manners and character." And the secretary made another movement, as if
to leave.

But it was my turn to detain him now. "Mr. Harwell, you must excuse me.
You have been on familiar terms with Mr. Leavenworth for so long. Do you
think that, in the case of one of his nieces, say, desiring to marry a
gentleman of that nationality, his prejudice was sufficient to cause him
to absolutely forbid the match?"

"I do."

I moved back. I had learned what I wished, and saw no further reason for
prolonging the interview.



XXII. PATCH-WORK


    "Come, give us a taste of your quality."
        Hamlet.

STARTING with the assumption that Mr. Clavering in his conversation of
the morning had been giving me, with more or less accuracy, a
detailed account of his own experience and position regarding Eleanore
Leavenworth, I asked myself what particular facts it would be necessary
for me to establish in order to prove the truth of this assumption, and
found them to be:

I. That Mr. Clavering had not only been in this country at the time
designated, but that he had been located for some little time at a
watering-place in New York State.

II. That this watering-place should correspond to the one in which Miss
Eleanore Leavenworth was staying at the same time.

III. That they had been seen while there to hold more or less
communication.

IV. That they had both been absent from town, at Lorne one time, long
enough to have gone through the ceremony of marriage at a point twenty
miles or so away.

V. That a Methodist clergyman, who has since died, lived at that time
within a radius of twenty miles of said watering-place.

I next asked myself how I was to establish these acts. Mr. Clavering's
life was as yet too little known to me to offer me any assistance; so,
leaving it for the present, I took up the thread of Eleanore's history,
and found that at the time given me she had been in R----, a fashionable
watering-place in this State. Now, if his was true, and my theory
correct, he must have been there also. To prove this fact, became,
consequently, my first business. I resolved to go to R---- on the
morrow.

But before proceeding in an undertaking of such importance, I considered
it expedient to make such inquiries and collect such facts as the few
hours I had left to work in rendered possible. I went first to the house
of Mr. Gryce.

I found him lying upon a hard sofa, in the bare sitting-room I have
before mentioned, suffering from a severe attack of rheumatism. His
hands were done up in bandages, and his feet incased in multiplied folds
of a dingy red shawl which looked as if it had been through the wars.
Greeting me with a short nod that was both a welcome and an apology,
he devoted a few words to an explanation of his unwonted position; and
then, without further preliminaries, rushed into the subject which was
uppermost in both our minds by inquiring, in a slightly sarcastic way,
if I was very much surprised to find my bird flown when I returned to
the Hoffman House that afternoon.

"I was astonished to find you allowed him to fly at this time,"
I replied. "From the manner in which you requested me to make his
acquaintance, I supposed you considered him an important character in
the tragedy which has just been enacted."

"And what makes you think I don't? Oh, the fact that I let him go off
so easily? That's no proof. I never fiddle with the brakes till the
car starts down-hill. But let that pass for the present; Mr. Clavering,
then, did not explain himself before going?"

"That is a question which I find it exceedingly difficult to answer.
Hampered by circumstances, I cannot at present speak with the directness
which is your due, but what I can say, I will. Know, then, that in my
opinion Mr. Clavering did explain himself in an interview with me this
morning. But it was done in so blind a way, it will be necessary for me
to make a few investigations before I shall feel sufficiently sure of
my ground to take you into my confidence. He has given me a possible
clue----"

"Wait," said Mr. Gryce; "does he know this? Was it done intentionally
and with sinister motive, or unconsciously and in plain good faith?"

"In good faith, I should say."

Mr. Gryce remained silent for a moment. "It is very unfortunate you
cannot explain yourself a little more definitely," he said at last. "I
am almost afraid to trust you to make investigations, as you call them,
on your own hook. You are not used to the business, and will lose time,
to say nothing of running upon false scents, and using up your strength
on unprofitable details."

"You should have thought of that when you admitted me into partnership."

"And you absolutely insist upon working this mine alone?"

"Mr. Gryce, the matter stands just here. Mr. Clavering, for all I know,
is a gentleman of untarnished reputation. I am not even aware for what
purpose you set me upon his trail. I only know that in thus following
it I have come upon certain facts that seem worthy of further
investigation."

"Well, well; you know best. But the days are slipping by. Something must
be done, and soon. The public are becoming clamorous."

"I know it, and for that reason I have come to you for such assistance
as you can give me at this stage of the proceedings. You are in
possession of certain facts relating to this man which it concerns me
to know, or your conduct in reference to him has been purposeless. Now,
frankly, will you make me master of those facts: in short, tell me all
you know of Mr. Clavering, without requiring an immediate return of
confidence on my part?"

"That is asking a great deal of a professional detective."

"I know it, and under other circumstances I should hesitate long before
preferring such a request; but as things are, I don't see how I am to
proceed in the matter without some such concession on your part. At all
events----"

"Wait a moment! Is not Mr. Clavering the lover of one of the young
ladies?"

Anxious as I was to preserve the secret of my interest in that
gentleman, I could not prevent the blush from rising to my face at the
suddenness of this question.

"I thought as much," he went on. "Being neither a relative nor
acknowledged friend, I took it for granted he must occupy some such
position as that in the family."

"I do not see why you should draw such an inference," said I, anxious
to determine how much he knew about him. "Mr. Clavering is a stranger in
town; has not even been in this country long; has indeed had no time to
establish himself upon any such footing as you suggest."

"This is not the only time Mr. Clavering has been in New York. He was
here a year ago to my certain knowledge."

"You know that?"

"Yes."

"How much more do you know? Can it be possible I am groping blindly
about for facts which are already in your possession? I pray you listen
to my entreaties, Mr. Gryce, and acquaint me at once with what I want to
know. You will not regret it. I have no selfish motive in this matter.
If I succeed, the glory shall be yours; it I fail, the shame of the
defeat shall be mine."

"That is fair," he muttered. "And how about the reward?"

"My reward will be to free an innocent woman from the imputation of
crime which hangs over her."

This assurance seemed to satisfy him. His voice and appearance changed;
for a moment he looked quite confidential. "Well, well," said he; "and
what is it you want to know?"

"I should first like to know how your suspicions came to light on him
at all. What reason had you for thinking a gentleman of his bearing and
position was in any way connected with this affair?"

"That is a question you ought not to be obliged to put," he returned.

"How so?"

"Simply because the opportunity of answering it was in your hands before
ever it came into mine."

"What do you mean?"

"Don't you remember the letter mailed in your presence by Miss Mary
Leavenworth during your drive from her home to that of her friend in
Thirty-seventh Street?"

"On the afternoon of the inquest?"

"Yes."

"Certainly, but----"

"You never thought to look at its superscription before it was dropped
into the box."

"I had neither opportunity nor right to do so."

"Was it not written in your presence?"

"It was."

"And you never regarded the affair as worth your attention?"

"However I may have regarded it, I did not see how I could prevent Miss
Leavenworth from dropping a letter into a box if she chose to do so."

"That is because you are a _gentleman._ Well, it has its disadvantages,"
he muttered broodingly.

"But you," said I; "how came you to know anything about this letter?
Ah, I see," remembering that the carriage in which we were riding at the
time had been procured for us by him. "The man on the box was in your
pay, and informed, as you call it."

Mr. Gryce winked at his muffled toes mysteriously. "That is not the
point," he said. "Enough that I heard that a letter, which might
reasonably prove to be of some interest to me, had been dropped at such
an hour into the box on the corner of a certain street. That, coinciding
in the opinion of my informant, I telegraphed to the station connected
with that box to take note of the address of a suspicious-looking letter
about to pass through their hands on the way to the General Post Office,
and following up the telegram in person, found that a curious epistle
addressed in lead pencil and sealed with a stamp, had just arrived, the
address of which I was allowed to see----"

"And which was?"

"Henry R. Clavering, Hoffman House, New York."

I drew a deep breath. "And so that is how your attention first came to
be directed to this man?"

"Yes."

"Strange. But go on--what next?"

"Why, next I followed up the clue by going to the Hoffman House and
instituting inquiries. I learned that Mr. Clavering was a regular guest
of the hotel. That he had come there, direct from the Liverpool
steamer, about three months since, and, registering his name as Henry
R. Clavering, Esq., London, had engaged a first-class room which he had
kept ever since. That, although nothing definite was known concerning
him, he had been seen with various highly respectable people, both of
his own nation and ours, by all of whom he was treated with respect. And
lastly, that while not liberal, he had given many evidences of being a
man of means. So much done, I entered the office, and waited for him to
come in, in the hope of having an opportunity to observe his manner when
the clerk handed him that strange-looking letter from Mary Leavenworth."

"And did you succeed?"

"No; an awkward gawk of a fellow stepped between us just at the critical
moment, and shut off my view. But I heard enough that evening from the
clerk and servants, of the agitation he had shown on receiving it, to
convince me I was upon a trail worth following. I accordingly put on
my men, and for two days Mr. Clavering was subjected to the most
rigid watch a man ever walked under. But nothing was gained by it; his
interest in the murder, if interest at all, was a secret one; and though
he walked the streets, studied the papers, and haunted the vicinity
of the house in Fifth Avenue, he not only refrained from actually
approaching it, but made no attempt to communicate with any of the
family. Meanwhile, you crossed my path, and with your determination
incited me to renewed effort. Convinced from Mr. Clavering's bearing,
and the gossip I had by this time gathered in regard to him, that no one
short of a gentleman and a friend could succeed in getting at the clue
of his connection with this family, I handed him over to you, and----"

"Found me rather an unmanageable colleague."

Mr. Gryce smiled very much as if a sour plum had been put in his mouth,
but made no reply; and a momentary pause ensued.

"Did you think to inquire," I asked at last, "if any one knew where Mr.
Clavering had spent the evening of the murder?"

"Yes; but with no good result. It was agreed he went out during the
evening; also that he was in his bed in the morning when the servant
came in to make his fire; but further than this no one seemed posted."

"So that, in fact, you gleaned nothing that would in any way connect
this man with the murder except his marked and agitated interest in it,
and the fact that a niece of the murdered man had written a letter to
him?"

"That is all."

"Another question; did you hear in what manner and at what time he
procured a newspaper that evening?"

"No; I only learned that he was observed, by more than one, to hasten
out of the dining-room with the _Post_ in his hand, and go immediately
to his room without touching his dinner."

"Humph! that does not look---"

"If Mr. Clavering had had a guilty knowledge of the crime, he would
either have ordered dinner before opening the paper, or, having ordered
it, he would have eaten it."

"Then you do not believe, from what you have learned, that Mr. Clavering
is the guilty party?"

Mr. Gryce shifted uneasily, glanced at the papers protruding from my
coat pocket and exclaimed: "I am ready to be convinced by you that he
is."

That sentence recalled me to the business in hand. Without appearing to
notice his look, I recurred to my questions.

"How came you to know that Mr. Clavering was in this city last summer?
Did you learn that, too, at the Hoffman House?"

"No; I ascertained that in quite another way. In short, I have had a
communication from London in regard to the matter.

"From London?"

"Yes; I've a friend there in my own line of business, who sometimes
assists me with a bit of information, when requested."

"But how? You have not had time to write to London, and receive an
answer since the murder."

"It is not necessary to write. It is enough for me to telegraph him the
name of a person, for him to understand that I want to know everything
he can gather in a reasonable length of time about that person."

"And you sent the name of Mr. Clavering to him?"

"Yes, in cipher."

"And have received a reply?"

"This morning."

I looked towards his desk.

"It is not there," he said; "if you will be kind enough to feel in my
breast pocket you will find a letter----"

It was in my hand before he finished his sentence. "Excuse my
eagerness," I said. "This kind of business is new to me, you know."

He smiled indulgently at a very old and faded picture hanging on the
wall before him. "Eagerness is not a fault; only the betrayal of it. But
read out what you have there. Let us hear what my friend Brown has to
tell us of Mr. Henry Ritchie Clavering, of Portland Place, London."

I took the paper to the light and read as follows:


    "Henry Ritchie Clavering, Gentleman, aged 43. Born in

    ----, Hertfordshire, England. His father was Chas. Clavering, for
    short time in the army. Mother was Helen Ritchie, of Dumfriesshire,
    Scotland; she is still living. Home with H. R. C., in Portland Place,
    London. H. R. C. is a bachelor, 6 ft. high, squarely built, weight
    about 12 stone. Dark complexion, regular features. Eyes dark brown;
    nose straight. Called a handsome man; walks erect and rapidly. In
    society is considered a good fellow; rather a favorite, especially with
    ladies. Is liberal, not extravagant; reported to be worth about
    5000 pounds per year, and appearances give color to this statement.
    Property consists of a small estate in Hertfordshire, and some funds,
    amount not known. Since writing this much, a correspondent sends the
    following in regard to his history. In '46 went from uncle's house to
    Eton. From Eton went to Oxford, graduating in '56. Scholarship good. In
    1855 his uncle died, and his father succeeded to the estates. Father
    died in '57 by a fall from his horse or a similar accident. Within a
    very short time H. R. C. took his mother to London, to the residence
    named, where they have lived to the present time.

    "Travelled considerably in 1860; part of the time was with
    ----, of Munich; also in party of Vandervorts from New York; went
    as far east as Cairo. Went to America in 1875 alone, but at end of
    three months returned on account of mother's illness. Nothing is known
    of his movements while in America.

    "From servants learn that he was always a favorite from a boy. More
    recently has become somewhat taciturn. Toward last of his stay watched
    the post carefully, especially foreign ones. Posted scarcely anything
    but newspapers. Has written to Munich. Have seen, from waste-paper
    basket, torn envelope directed to Amy Belden, no address. American
    correspondents mostly in Boston; two in New York. Names not known, but
    supposed to be bankers. Brought home considerable luggage, and fitted
    up part of house, as for a lady. This was closed soon afterwards. Left
    for America two months since. Has been, I understand, travelling in the
    south. Has telegraphed twice to Portland Place. His friends hear from
    him but rarely. Letters rec'd recently, posted in New York. One by last
    steamer posted in F----, N. Y.

    "Business here conducted by ----. In the country, ---- of ---- has
    charge of the property.

    "BROWN."

The document fell from my hands.

F----, N. Y., was a small town near R----.

"Your friend is a trump," I declared. "He tells me just what I wanted
most to know." And, taking out my book, I made memoranda of the facts
which had most forcibly struck me during my perusal of the communication
before me. "With the aid of what he tells me, I shall ferret out the
mystery of Henry Clavering in a week; see if I do not."

"And how soon," inquired Mr. Gryce, "may I expect to be allowed to take
a hand in the game?"

"As soon as I am reasonably assured I am upon the right tack."

"And what will it take to assure you of that?"

"Not much; a certain point settled, and----"

"Hold on; who knows but what I can do that for you?" And, looking
towards the desk which stood in the corner, Mr. Gryce asked me if I
would be kind enough to open the top drawer and bring him the bits of
partly-burned paper I would find there.

Hastily complying, I brought three or four strips of ragged paper, and
laid them on the table at his side.

"Another result of Fobbs' researches under the coal on the first day of
the inquest," Mr. Gryce abruptly explained. "You thought the key was
all he found. Well, it wasn't. A second turning over of the coal brought
these to light, and very interesting they are, too."

I immediately bent over the torn and discolored scraps with great
anxiety. They were four in number, and appeared at first glance to be
the mere remnants of a sheet of common writing-paper, torn lengthwise
into strips, and twisted up into lighters; but, upon closer inspection,
they showed traces of writing upon one side, and, what was more
important still, the presence of one or more drops of spattered blood.
This latter discovery was horrible to me, and so overcame me for the
moment that I put the scraps down, and, turning towards Mr. Gryce,
inquired:

"What do you make of them?"

"That is just the question I was going to put to you."

Swallowing my disgust, I took them up again. "They look like the
remnants of some old letter," said I.

"They have that appearance," Mr. Gryce grimly assented.

"A letter which, from the drop of blood observable on the written side,
must have been lying face up on Mr. Leavenworth's table at the time of
the murder--"

"Just so."

"And from the uniformity in width of each of these pieces, as well as
their tendency to curl up when left alone, must first have been torn
into even strips, and then severally rolled up, before being tossed into
the grate where they were afterwards found."

"That is all good," said Mr. Gryce; "go on."

"The writing, so far as discernible, is that of a cultivated gentleman.
It is not that of Mr. Leavenworth; for I have studied his chirography
too much lately not to know it at a glance; but it may be--Hold!" I
suddenly exclaimed, "have you any mucilage handy? I think, if I could
paste these strips down upon a piece of paper, so that they would
remain flat, I should be able to tell you what I think of them much more
easily."

"There is mucilage on the desk," signified Mr. Gryce.

Procuring it, I proceeded to consult the scraps once more for evidence
to guide me in their arrangement. These were more marked than I
expected; the longer and best preserved strip, with its "Mr. Hor" at
the top, showing itself at first blush to be the left-hand margin of
the letter, while the machine-cut edge of the next in length presented
tokens fully as conclusive of its being the right-hand margin of the
same. Selecting these, then, I pasted them down on a piece of paper at
just the distance they would occupy if the sheet from which they were
torn was of the ordinary commercial note size. Immediately it became
apparent: first, that it would take two other strips of the same width
to fill up the space left between them; and secondly, that the writing
did not terminate at the foot of the sheet, but was carried on to
another page.

Taking up the third strip, I looked at its edge; it was machine-cut
at the top, and showed by the arrangement of its words that it was
the margin strip of a second leaf. Pasting that down by itself, I
scrutinized the fourth, and finding it also machine-cut at the top but
not on the side, endeavored to fit it to the piece already pasted down,
but the words would not match. Moving it along to the position it
would hold if it were the third strip, I fastened it down; the whole
presenting, when completed, the appearance seen on the opposite page.

"Well!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce, "that's business." Then, as I held it up
before his eyes: "But don't show it to me. Study it yourself, and tell
me what you think of it."

"Well," said I, "this much is certain: that it is a letter directed to
Mr. Leavenworth from some House, and dated--let's see; that is an _h,_
isn't it?" And I pointed to the one letter just discernible on the line
under the word House.

"I should think so; but don't ask me."

"It must be an _h._ The year is 1875, and this is not the termination
of either January or February. Dated, then, March 1st, 1876, and
signed----"

Mr. Gryce rolled his eyes in anticipatory ecstasy towards the ceiling.

"By Henry Clavering," I announced without hesitation.

Mr. Gryce's eyes returned to his swathed finger-ends. "Humph! how do you
know that?"

"Wait a moment, and I'll show you"; and, taking out of my pocket the
card which Mr. Clavering had handed me as an introduction at our late
interview, I laid it underneath the last line of writing on the second
page. One glance was sufficient. Henry Ritchie Clavering on the card;
H----chie--in the same handwriting on the letter.

"Clavering it is," said he, "without a doubt." But I saw he was not
surprised.

"And now," I continued, "for its general tenor and meaning." And,
commencing at the beginning, I read aloud the words as they came, with
pauses at the breaks, something as follows: "Mr. Hor--Dear--a niece whom
yo--one too who see--the love and trus--any other man ca--autiful, so
char----s she in face fo----conversation. ery rose has its----rose is no
exception------ely as she is, char----tender as she is,
s----------pable of tramplin------one who trusted----heart------------.
-------------------- him to----he owes a----honor----ance.

"If------t believe ---- her to----cruel----face,---- what is----ble
serv----yours

"H------tchie"

"It reads like a complaint against one of Mr. Leavenworth's nieces," I
said, and started at my own words.

"What is it?" cried Mr. Gryce; "what is the matter?"

"Why," said I, "the fact is I have heard this very letter spoken of.
It _is_ a complaint against one of Mr. Leavenworth's nieces, and was
written by Mr. Clavering." And I told him of Mr. Harwell's communication
in regard to the matter.

"Ah! then Mr. Harwell has been talking, has he? I thought he had
forsworn gossip."

"Mr. Harwell and I have seen each other almost daily for the last two
weeks," I replied. "It would be strange if he had nothing to tell me."

"And he says he has read a letter written to Mr. Leavenworth by Mr.
Clavering?"

"Yes; but the particular words of which he has now forgotten."

"These few here may assist him in recalling the rest."

"I would rather not admit him to a knowledge of the existence of
this piece of evidence. I don't believe in letting any one into our
confidence whom we can conscientiously keep out."

"I see you don't," dryly responded Mr. Gryce.

Not appearing to notice the fling conveyed by these words, I took up the
letter once more, and began pointing out such half-formed words in it
as I thought we might venture to complete, as the Hor--, yo--,
see--utiful----, har----, for----, tramplin----, pable----, serv----.

This done, I next proposed the introduction of such others as seemed
necessary to the sense, as _Leavenworth_ after _Horatio; Sir_ after
_Dear; have_ with a possible _you_ before _a niece; thorn_ after _its_
in the phrase _rose has its; on after trampling; whom_ after _to;
debt after a; you_ after _If; me ask_ after _believe; beautiful_ after
_cruel._

Between the columns of words thus furnished I interposed a phrase or
two, here and there, the whole reading upon its completion as follows:

"------------ House." March 1st, 1876.

"_Mr. Horatio Leavenworth; Dear Sir:_

"(You) have a niece whom you    one too who seems    worthy    the love
and trust     of any other man ca    so    beautiful, so charming    is
she in face form and    conversation.    But every rose has its thorn
and (this) rose is no exception    lovely as she is, charming (as she
is,) tender as she is, she    is    capable of trampling on     one who
trusted her heart a

him to whom she owes a debt of honor a    ance

"If you don't believe me ask her to    her    cruel beautiful face   
what is (her) humble servant yours:

"Henry Ritchie Clavering."

"I think that will do," said Mr. Gryce. "Its general tenor is evident,
and that is all we want at this time."

"The whole tone of it is anything but complimentary to the lady it
mentions," I remarked. "He must have had, or imagined he had, some
desperate grievance, to provoke him to the use of such plain language in
regard to one he can still characterize as tender, charming, beautiful."

"Grievances are apt to lie back of mysterious crimes."

"I think I know what this one was," I said; "but"--seeing him look
up--"must decline to communicate my suspicion to you for the present. My
theory stands unshaken, and in some degree confirmed; and that is all I
can say."

"Then this letter does not supply the link you wanted?"

"No: it is a valuable bit of evidence; but it is not the link I am in
search of just now."

"Yet it must be an important clue, or Eleanore Leavenworth would not
have been to such pains, first to take it in the way she did from her
uncle's table, and secondly----"

"Wait! what makes you think this is the paper she took, or was believed
to have taken, from Mr. Leavenworth's table on that fatal morning?"

"Why, the fact that it was found together with the key, which we know
she dropped into the grate, and that there are drops of blood on it."

I shook my head.

"Why do you shake your head?" asked Mr. Gryce.

"Because I am not satisfied with your reason for believing this to be
the paper taken by her from Mr. Leavenworth's table."

"And why?"

"Well, first, because Fobbs does not speak of seeing any paper in her
hand, when she bent over the fire; leaving us to conclude that these
pieces were in the scuttle of coal she threw upon it; which surely you
must acknowledge to be a strange place for her to have put a paper she
took such pains to gain possession of; and, secondly, for the reason
that these scraps were twisted as if they had been used for curl papers,
or something of that kind; a fact hard to explain by your hypothesis."

The detective's eye stole in the direction of my necktie, which was as
near as he ever came to a face. "You are a bright one," said he; "a very
bright one. I quite admire you, Mr. Raymond."

A little surprised, and not altogether pleased with this unexpected
compliment, I regarded him doubtfully for a moment and then asked:

"What is your opinion upon the matter?"

"Oh, you know I have no opinion. I gave up everything of that kind when
I put the affair into your hands."

"Still----"

"That the letter of which these scraps are the remnant was on Mr.
Leavenworth's table at the time of the murder is believed. That upon the
body being removed, a paper was taken from the table by Miss Eleanore
Leavenworth, is also believed. That, when she found her action had been
noticed, and attention called to this paper and the key, she resorted to
subterfuge in order to escape the vigilance of the watch that had been
set over her, and, partially succeeding in her endeavor, flung the key
into the fire from which these same scraps were afterwards recovered, is
also known. The conclusion I leave to your judgment."

"Very well, then," said I, rising; "we will let conclusions go for the
present. My mind must be satisfied in regard to the truth or falsity of
a certain theory of mine, for my judgment to be worth much on this or
any other matter connected with the affair."

And, only waiting to get the address of his subordinate P., in case
I should need assistance in my investigations, I left Mr. Gryce, and
proceeded immediately to the house of Mr. Veeley.



XXIII. THE STORY OF A CHARMING WOMAN


    "Fe, fi, fo, fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman."
        --Old Song.

    "I hold you as a thing enskied and sainted."
        --Measure for Measure.

"YOU have never heard, then, the particulars of Mr. Leavenworth's
marriage?"

It was my partner who spoke. I had been asking him to explain to me Mr.
Leavenworth's well-known antipathy to the English race.

"No."

"If you had, you would not need to come to me for this explanation. But
it is not strange you are ignorant of the matter. I doubt if there
are half a dozen persons in existence who could tell you where Horatio
Leavenworth found the lovely woman who afterwards became his wife,
much less give you any details of the circumstances which led to his
marriage."

"I am very fortunate, then, in being in the confidence of one who can.
What were those circumstances, Mr. Veeley?"

"It will aid you but little to hear. Horatio Leavenworth, when a young
man, was very ambitious; so much so, that at one time he aspired to
marry a wealthy lady of Providence. But, chancing to go to England, he
there met a young woman whose grace and charm had such an effect upon
him that he relinquished all thought of the Providence lady, though it
was some time before he could face the prospect of marrying the one
who had so greatly interested him; as she was not only in humble
circumstances, but was encumbered with a child concerning whose
parentage the neighbors professed ignorance, and she had nothing to
say. But, as is very apt to be the case in an affair like this, love and
admiration soon got the better of worldly wisdom. Taking his future
in his hands, he offered himself as her husband, when she immediately
proved herself worthy of his regard by entering at once into those
explanations he was too much of a gentleman to demand.

The story she told was pitiful. She proved to be an American by birth,
her father having been a well-known merchant of Chicago. While he lived,
her home was one of luxury, but just as she was emerging into womanhood
he died. It was at his funeral she met the man destined to be her ruin.
How he came there she never knew; he was not a friend of her father's.
It is enough he was there, and saw her, and that in three weeks--don't
shudder, she was such a child--they were married. In twenty-four hours
she knew what that word meant for her; it meant blows. Everett, I am
telling no fanciful story. In twenty-four hours after that girl was
married, her husband, coming drunk into the house, found her in his way,
and knocked her down. It was but the beginning. Her father's estate, on
being settled up, proving to be less than expected, he carried her off
to England, where he did not wait to be drunk in order to maltreat her.
She was not free from his cruelty night or day. Before she was sixteen,
she had run the whole gamut of human suffering; and that, not at the
hands of a coarse, common ruffian, but from an elegant, handsome,
luxury-loving gentleman, whose taste in dress was so nice he would
sooner fling a garment of hers into the fire than see her go into
company clad in a manner he did not consider becoming. She bore it till
her child was born, then she fled. Two days after the little one saw the
light, she rose from her bed and, taking her baby in her arms, ran out
of the house. The few jewels she had put into her pocket supported her
till she could set up a little shop. As for her husband, she neither saw
him, nor heard from him, from the day she left him till about two weeks
before Horatio Leavenworth first met her, when she learned from the
papers that he was dead. She was, therefore, free; but though she loved
Horatio Leavenworth with all her heart, she would not marry him. She
felt herself forever stained and soiled by the one awful year of abuse
and contamination. Nor could he persuade her. Not till the death of her
child, a month or so after his proposal, did she consent to give him her
hand and what remained of her unhappy life. He brought her to New York,
surrounded her with luxury and every tender care, but the arrow had gone
too deep; two years from the day her child breathed its last, she too
died. It was the blow of his life to Horatio Leavenworth; he was never
the same man again. Though Mary and Eleanore shortly after entered his
home, he never recovered his old light-heartedness. Money became his
idol, and the ambition to make and leave a great fortune behind him
modified all his views of life. But one proof remained that he never
forgot the wife of his youth, and that was, he could not bear to have
the word 'Englishman' uttered in his hearing."

Mr. Veeley paused, and I rose to go. "Do you remember how Mrs.
Leavenworth looked?" I asked. "Could you describe her to me?"

He seemed a little astonished at my request, but immediately replied:
"She was a very pale woman; not strictly beautiful, but of a contour and
expression of great charm. Her hair was brown, her eyes gray--"

"And very wide apart?"

He nodded, looking still more astonished. "How came you to know? Have
you seen her picture?"

I did not answer that question.

On my way downstairs, I bethought me of a letter which I had in my
pocket for Mr. Veeley's son Fred, and, knowing of no surer way of
getting it to him that night than by leaving it on the library table, I
stepped to the door of that room, which in this house was at the rear
of the parlors, and receiving no reply to my knock, opened it and looked
in.

The room was unlighted, but a cheerful fire was burning in the grate,
and by its glow I espied a lady crouching on the hearth, whom at first
glance I took for Mrs. Veeley. But, upon advancing and addressing her by
that name, I saw my mistake; for the person before me not only refrained
from replying, but, rising at the sound of my voice, revealed a form
of such noble proportions that all possibility of its being that of the
dainty little wife of my partner fled.

"I see I have made a mistake," said I. "I beg your pardon"; and would
have left the room, but something in the general attitude of the lady
before me restrained me, and, believing it to be Mary Leavenworth, I
inquired:

"Can it be this is Miss Leavenworth?"

The noble figure appeared to droop, the gently lifted head to fall, and
for a moment I doubted if I had been correct in my supposition. Then
form and head slowly erected themselves, a soft voice spoke, and I heard
a low "yes," and hurriedly advancing, confronted--not Mary, with her
glancing, feverish gaze, and scarlet, trembling lips--but Eleanore, the
woman whose faintest look had moved me from the first, the woman whose
husband I believed myself to be even then pursuing to his doom!

The surprise was too great; I could neither sustain nor conceal it.
Stumbling slowly back, I murmured something about having believed it
to be her cousin; and then, conscious only of the one wish to fly a
presence I dared not encounter in my present mood, turned, when her
rich, heart-full voice rose once more and I heard:

"You will not leave me without a word, Mr. Raymond, now that chance has
thrown us together?" Then, as I came slowly forward: "Were you so very
much astonished to find me here?"

"I do not know--I did not expect--" was my incoherent reply. "I had
heard you were ill; that you went nowhere; that you had no wish to see
your friends."

"I have been ill," she said; "but I am better now, and have come to
spend the night with Mrs. Veeley, because I could not endure the stare
of the four walls of my room any longer."

This was said without any effort at plaintiveness, but rather as if she
thought it necessary to excuse herself for being where she was.

"I am glad you did so," said I. "You ought to be here all the while.
That dreary, lonesome boarding-house is no place for you, Miss
Leavenworth. It distresses us all to feel that you are exiling yourself
at this time."

"I do not wish anybody to be distressed," she returned. "It is best for
me to be where I am. Nor am I altogether alone. There is a child there
whose innocent eyes see nothing but innocence in mine. She will keep me
from despair. Do not let my friends be anxious; I can bear it." Then, in
a lower tone: "There is but one thing which really unnerves me; and
that is my ignorance of what is going on at home. Sorrow I can bear, but
suspense is killing me. Will you not tell me something of Mary and home?
I cannot ask Mrs. Veeley; she is kind, but has no real knowledge of Mary
or me, nor does she know anything of our estrangement. She thinks me
obstinate, and blames me for leaving my cousin in her trouble. But you
know I could not help it. You know,--" her voice wavered off into a
tremble, and she did not conclude.

"I cannot tell you much," I hastened to reply; "but whatever knowledge
is at my command is certainly yours. Is there anything in particular you
wish to know?"

"Yes, how Mary is; whether she is well, and--and composed."

"Your cousin's health is good," I returned; "but I fear I cannot say she
is composed. She is greatly troubled about you."

"You see her often, then?"

"I am assisting Mr. Harwell in preparing your uncle's book for the
press, and necessarily am there much of the time."

"My uncle's book!" The words came in a tone of low horror.

"Yes, Miss Leavenworth. It has been thought best to bring it before the
world, and----"

"And Mary has set you at the task?"

"Yes."

It seemed as if she could not escape from the horror which this caused.
"How could she? Oh, how could she!"

"She considers herself as fulfilling her uncle's wishes. He was very
anxious, as you know, to have the book out by July."

"Do not speak of it!" she broke in, "I cannot bear it." Then, as if she
feared she had hurt my feelings by her abruptness, lowered her voice and
said: "I do not, however, know of any one I should be better pleased to
have charged with the task than yourself. With you it will be a work of
respect and reverence; but a stranger--Oh, I could not have endured a
stranger touching it."

She was fast falling into her old horror; but rousing herself, murmured:
"I wanted to ask you something; ah, I know"--and she moved so as to
face me. "I wish to inquire if everything is as before in the house; the
servants the same and--and other things?"

"There is a Mrs. Darrell there; I do not know of any other change."

"Mary does not talk of going away?"

"I think not."

"But she has visitors? Some one besides Mrs. Darrell to help her bear
her loneliness?"

I knew what was coming, and strove to preserve my composure.

"Yes," I replied; "a few."

"Would you mind naming them?" How low her tones were, but how distinct!

"Certainly not. Mrs. Veeley, Mrs. Gilbert, Miss Martin, and a--a----"

"Go on," she whispered.

"A gentleman by the name of Clavering."

"You speak that name with evident embarrassment," she said, after a
moment of intense anxiety on my part. "May I inquire why?"

Astounded, I raised my eyes to her face. It was very pale, and wore
the old look of self-repressed calm I remembered so well. I immediately
dropped my gaze.

"Why? because there are some circumstances surrounding him which have
struck me as peculiar."

"How so?" she asked.

"He appears under two names. To-day it is Clavering; a short time ago it
was----"

"Go on."

"Robbins."

Her dress rustled on the hearth; there was a sound of desolation in it;
but her voice when she spoke was expressionless as that of an automaton.

"How many times has this person, of whose name you do not appear to be
certain, been to see Mary?"

"Once."

"When was it?"

"Last night."

"Did he stay long?"

"About twenty minutes, I should say."

"And do you think he will come again?"

"No."

"Why?"

"He has left the country."

A short silence followed this, I felt her eyes searching my face, but
doubt whether, if I had known she held a loaded pistol, I could have
looked up at that moment.

"Mr. Raymond," she at length observed, in a changed tone, "the last time
I saw you, you told me you were going to make some endeavor to restore
me to my former position before the world. I did not wish you to do so
then; nor do I wish you to do so now. Can you not make me comparatively
happy, then, by assuring me you have abandoned or will abandon a project
so hopeless?"

"It is impossible," I replied with emphasis. "I cannot abandon it. Much
as I grieve to be a source of sorrow to you, it is best you should know
that I can never give up the hope of righting you while I live."

She put out her hand in a sort of hopeless appeal inexpressibly touching
to behold in the fast waning firelight. But I was relentless.

"I should never be able to face the world or my own conscience if,
through any weakness of my own, I should miss the blessed privilege
of setting the wrong right, and saving a noble woman from unmerited
disgrace." And then, seeing she was not likely to reply to this, drew a
step nearer and said: "Is there not some little kindness I can show you,
Miss Leavenworth? Is there no message you would like taken, or act it
would give you pleasure to see performed?"

She stopped to think. "No," said she; "I have only one request to make,
and that you refuse to grant."

"For the most unselfish of reasons," I urged.

She slowly shook her head. "You think so"; then, before I could reply,
"I could desire one little favor shown me, however."

"What is that?"

"That if anything should transpire; if Hannah should be found, or--or my
presence required in any way,--you will not keep me in ignorance. That
you will let me know the worst when it comes, without fail."

"I will."

"And now, good-night. Mrs. Veeley is coming back, and you would scarcely
wish to be found here by her."

"No," said I.

And yet I did not go, but stood watching the firelight flicker on her
black dress till the thought of Clavering and the duty I had for the
morrow struck coldly to my heart, and I turned away towards the
door. But at the threshold I paused again, and looked back. Oh, the
flickering, dying fire flame! Oh, the crowding, clustering shadows!
Oh, that drooping figure in their midst, with its clasped hands and its
hidden face! I see it all again; I see it as in a dream; then darkness
falls, and in the glare of gas-lighted streets, I am hastening along,
solitary and sad, to my lonely home.



XXIV. A REPORT FOLLOWED BY SMOKE


    "Oft expectation fails, and most oft there
    Where most it promises; and oft it hits
    Where Hope is coldest, and Despair most sits."
        --All's Well that Ends Well.

WHEN I told Mr. Gryce I only waited for the determination of one fact,
to feel justified in throwing the case unreservedly into his hands,
I alluded to the proving or disproving of the supposition that Henry
Clavering had been a guest at the same watering-place with Eleanore
Leavenworth the summer before.

When, therefore, I found myself the next morning with the Visitor Book
of the Hotel Union at R---- in my hands, it was only by the strongest
effort of will I could restrain my impatience. The suspense, however,
was short. Almost immediately I encountered his name, written not half
a page below those of Mr. Leavenworth and his nieces, and, whatever
may have been my emotion at finding my suspicions thus confirmed, I
recognized the fact that I was in the possession of a clue which would
yet lead to the solving of the fearful problem which had been imposed
upon me.

Hastening to the telegraph office, I sent a message for the man promised
me by Mr. Gryce, and receiving for an answer that he could not be with
me before three o'clock, started for the house of Mr. Monell, a client
of ours, living in R----. I found him at home and, during our interview
of two hours, suffered the ordeal of appearing at ease and interested
in what he had to say, while my heart was heavy with its first
disappointment and my brain on fire with the excitement of the work then
on my hands.

I arrived at the depot just as the train came in.

There was but one passenger for R----, a brisk young man, whose whole
appearance differed so from the description which had been given me of
Q that I at once made up my mind he could not be the man I was looking
for, and was turning away disappointed, when he approached, and handed
me a card on which was inscribed the single character "?" Even then I
could not bring myself to believe that the slyest and most successful
agent in Mr. Gryce's employ was before me, till, catching his eye, I saw
such a keen, enjoyable twinkle sparkling in its depths that all doubt
fled, and, returning his bow with a show of satisfaction, I remarked:

"You are very punctual. I like that."

He gave another short, quick nod. "Glad, sir, to please you. Punctuality
is too cheap a virtue not to be practised by a man on the lookout for
a rise. But what orders, sir? Down train due in ten minutes; no time to
spare."

"Down train? What have we to do with that?"

"I thought you might wish to take it, sir. Mr. Brown"--winking
expressively at the name, "always checks his carpet-bag for home when he
sees me coming. But that is your affair; I am not particular."

"I wish to do what is wisest under the circumstances."

"Go home, then, as speedily as possible." And he gave a third sharp nod
exceedingly business-like and determined.

"If I leave you, it is with the understanding that you bring your
information first to me; that you are in my employ, and in that of no
one else for the time being; and that _mum_ is the word till I give you
liberty to speak."

"Yes, sir. When I work for Brown & Co. I do not work for Smith & Jones.
That you can count on."

"Very well then, here are your instructions."

He looked at the paper I handed him with a certain degree of care, then
stepped into the waiting-room and threw it into the stove, saying in
a low tone: "So much in case I should meet with some accident: have an
apoplectic fit, or anything of that sort."

"But----"

"Oh, don't worry; I sha'n't forget. I've a memory, sir. No need of
anybody using pen and paper with me."

And laughing in the short, quick way one would expect from a person of
his appearance and conversation, he added: "You will probably hear from
me in a day or so," and bowing, took his brisk, free way down the street
just as the train came rushing in from the West.

My instructions to Q were as follows:

1. To find out on what day, and in whose company, the Misses Leavenworth
arrived at R---- the year before. What their movements had been while
there, and in whose society they were oftenest to be seen. Also the date
of their departure, and such facts as could be gathered in regard to
their habits, etc.

2. Ditto in respect to a Mr. Henry Clavering, fellow-guest and probable
friend of said ladies.

3. Name of individual fulfilling the following requirements: Clergyman,
Methodist, deceased since last December or thereabouts, who in July of
Seventy-five was located in some town not over twenty miles from R----.

4. Also name and present whereabouts of a man at that time in service of
the above.

To say that the interval of time necessary to a proper inquiry into
these matters was passed by me in any reasonable frame of mind, would be
to give myself credit for an equanimity of temper which I unfortunately
do not possess. Never have days seemed so long as the two which
interposed between my return from R---- and the receipt of the following
letter:

"Sir:

"Individuals mentioned arrived in R---- July 3, 1875. Party consisted
of four; the two ladies, their uncle, and the girl named Hannah.
Uncle remained three days, and then left for a short tour through
Massachusetts. Gone two weeks, during which ladies were seen more
or less with the gentleman named between us, but not to an extent
sufficient to excite gossip or occasion remark, when said gentleman
left R---- abruptly, two days after uncle's return. Date July 19. As to
habits of ladies, more or less social. They were always to be seen
at picnics, rides, etc., and in the ballroom. M---- liked best.
E----considered grave, and, towards the last of her stay, moody. It is
remembered now that her manner was always peculiar, and that she was
more or less shunned by her cousin.

However, in the opinion of one girl still to be found at the hotel, she
was the sweetest lady that ever breathed. No particular reason for this
opinion. Uncle, ladies, and servants left R---- for New York, August 7,
1875.

"2. H. C. arrived at the hotel in R----July 6, 1875, in-company with Mr.
and Mrs. Vandervort, friends of the above. Left July 19, two weeks from
day of arrival. Little to be learned in regard to him. Remembered as the
handsome gentleman who was in the party with the L. girls, and that is
all.

"3. F----, a small town, some sixteen or seventeen miles from R----, had
for its Methodist minister, in July of last year, a man who has since
died, Samuel Stebbins by name. Date of decease, Jan. 7 of this year.

"4. Name of man in employ of S. S. at that time is Timothy Cook. He
has been absent, but returned to P---- two days ago. Can be seen if
required."

"Ah, ha!" I cried aloud at this point, in my sudden surprise and
satisfaction; "now we have something to work upon!" And sitting down I
penned the following reply:

"T. C. wanted by all means. Also any evidence going to prove that H.
C. and E. L. were married at the house of Mr. S. on any day of July or
August last."

Next morning came the following telegram:

"T. C. on the road. Remembers a marriage. Will be with you by 2 p.m."

At three o'clock of that same day, I stood before Mr. Gryce. "I am here
to make my report," I announced.

The flicker of a smile passed over his face, and he gazed for the first
time at his bound-up finger-ends with a softening aspect which must have
done them good. "I'm ready," said he.

"Mr. Gryce," I began, "do you remember the conclusion we came to at our
first interview in this house?"

"I remember the _one you_ came to."

"Well, well," I acknowledged a little peevishly, "the one I came to,
then. It was this: that if we could find to whom Eleanore Leavenworth
felt she owed her best duty and love, we should discover the man who
murdered her uncle."

"And do you imagine you have done this?"

"I do."

His eyes stole a little nearer my face. "Well! that is good; go on."

"When I undertook this business of clearing Eleanore Leavenworth from
suspicion," I resumed, "it was with the premonition that this person
would prove to be her lover; but I had no idea he would prove to be her
husband."

Mr. Gryce's gaze flashed like lightning to the ceiling.

"What!" he ejaculated with a frown.

"The lover of Eleanore Leavenworth is likewise her husband," I repeated.
"Mr. Clavering holds no lesser connection to her than that."

"How have you found that out?" demanded Mr. Gryce, in a harsh tone that
argued disappointment or displeasure.

"That I will not take time to state. The question is not how I became
acquainted with a certain thing, but is what I assert in regard to it
true. If you will cast your eye over this summary of events gleaned by
me from the lives of these two persons, I think you will agree with me
that it is." And I held up before his eyes the following:

"During the two weeks commencing July 6, of the year 1875, and ending
July 19, of the same year, Henry R. Clavering, of London, and Eleanore
Leavenworth, of New York, were guests of the same hotel. _ Fact proved
by Visitor Book of the Hotel Union at R_----, _New York._

"They were not only guests of the same hotel, but are known to have
held more or less communication with each other. _Fact proved by such
servants now employed in R---- as were in the hotel at that time._

"July 19. Mr. Clavering left R---- abruptly, a circumstance that would
not be considered remarkable if Mr. Leavenworth, whose violent antipathy
to Englishmen as husbands is publicly known, had not just returned from
a journey.

"July 30. Mr. Clavering was seen in the parlor of Mr. Stebbins, the
Methodist minister at F----, a town about sixteen miles from R----,
where he was married to a lady of great beauty. _Proved by Timothy Cook,
a man in the employ of Mr. Stebbins, who was called in from the garden
to witness the ceremony and sign a paper supposed to be a certificate._

"July 31. Mr. Clavering takes steamer for Liverpool. _Proved by
newspapers of that date._

"September. Eleanore Leavenworth in her uncle's house in New York,
conducting herself as usual, but pale of face and preoccupied in manner.
_Proved by servants then in her service._ Mr. Clavering in London;
watches the United States mails with eagerness, but receives no letters.
Fits up room elegantly, as for a lady. _Proved by secret communication
from London._

"November. Miss Leavenworth still in uncle's house. No publication
of her marriage ever made. Mr. Clavering in London; shows signs of
uneasiness; the room prepared for lady closed. _Proved as above._

"January 17, 1876. Mr. Clavering, having returned to America, engages
room at Hoffman House, New York.

"March 1 or 2. Mr. Leavenworth receives a letter signed by Henry
Clavering, in which he complains of having been ill-used by one of that
gentleman's nieces. A manifest shade falls over the family at this time.

"March 4. Mr. Clavering under a false name inquires at the door of Mr.
Leavenworth's house for Miss Eleanore Leavenworth. _Proved by Thomas.'"_

"March 4th?" exclaimed Mr. Gryce at this point. "That was the night of
the murder.-"

"Yes; the Mr. Le Roy Robbins said to have called that evening was none
other than Mr. Clavering."

"March 19. Miss Mary Leavenworth, in a conversation with me,
acknowledges that there is a secret in the family, and is just upon the
point of revealing its nature, when Mr. Clavering enters the house. Upon
his departure she declares her unwillingness ever to mention the subject
again."

Mr. Gryce slowly waved the paper aside. "And from these facts you draw
the inference that Eleanore Leavenworth is the wife of Mr. Clavering?"

"I do."

"And that, being his wife----"

"It would be natural for her to conceal anything she knew likely to
criminate him."

"Always supposing Clavering himself had done anything criminal!"

"Of course."

"Which latter supposition you now propose to justify!"

"Which latter supposition it is left for _us_ to justify."

A peculiar gleam shot over Mr. Gryce's somewhat abstracted countenance.
"Then you have no new evidence against Mr. Clavering?"

"I should think the fact just given, of his standing in the relation of
unacknowledged husband to the suspected party was something."

"No positive evidence as to his being the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth, I
mean?"

I was obliged to admit I had none which he would consider positive. "But
I can show the existence of motive; and I can likewise show it was not
only possible, but probable, he was in the house at the time of the
murder."

"Ah, you can!" cried Mr. Gryce, rousing a little from his abstraction.

"The motive was the usual one of self-interest. Mr. Leavenworth stood
in the way of Eleanore's acknowledging him as a husband, and he must
therefore be put out of the way."

"Weak!"

"Motives for murders are sometimes weak."

"The motive for this was not. Too much calculation was shown for the arm
to have been nerved by anything short of the most deliberate intention,
founded upon the deadliest necessity of passion or avarice."

"Avarice?"

"One should never deliberate upon the causes which have led to the
destruction of a rich man without taking into account that most common
passion of the human race."

"But----"

"Let us hear what you have to say of Mr. Clavering's presence in the
house at the time of the murder."

I related what Thomas the butler had told me in regard to Mr.
Clavering's call upon Miss Leavenworth that night, and the lack of proof
which existed as to his having left the house when supposed to do so.

"That is worth remembering," said Mr. Gryce at the conclusion.
"Valueless as direct evidence, it might prove of great value as
corroborative." Then, in a graver tone, he went on to say: "Mr. Raymond,
are you aware that in all this you have been strengthening the case
against Eleanore Leavenworth instead of weakening it?"

I could only ejaculate, in my sudden wonder and dismay.

"You have shown her to be secret, sly, and unprincipled; capable of
wronging those to whom she was most bound, her uncle and her husband."

"You put it very strongly," said I, conscious of a shocking discrepancy
between this description of Eleanore's character and all that I had
preconceived in regard to it.

"No more so than your own conclusions from this story warrant me in
doing." Then, as I sat silent, murmured low, and as if to himself:
"If the case was dark against her before, it is doubly so with this
supposition established of her being the woman secretly married to Mr.
Clavering."

"And yet," I protested, unable to give up my hope without a struggle;
"you do not, cannot, believe the noble-looking Eleanore guilty of this
horrible crime?"

"No," he slowly said; "you might as well know right here what I think
about that. I believe Eleanore Leavenworth to be an innocent woman."

"You do? Then what," I cried, swaying between joy at this admission and
doubt as to the meaning of his former expressions, "remains to be done?"

Mr. Gryce quietly responded: "Why, nothing but to prove your supposition
a false one."



XXV. TIMOTHY COOK


    "Look here upon this picture and on this."
        --Hamlet.

I STARED at him in amazement. "I doubt if it will be so very difficult,"
said he. Then, in a sudden burst, "Where is the man Cook?"

"He is below with Q."

"That was a wise move; let us see the boys; have them up."

Stepping to the door I called them.

"I expected, of course, you would want to question them," said I, coming
back.

In another moment the spruce Q and the shock-headed Cook entered the
room.

"Ah," said Mr. Gryce, directing his attention at the latter in his own
whimsical, non-committal way; "this is the deceased Mr. Stebbins' hired
man, is it? Well, you look as though you could tell the truth."

"I usually calculate to do that thing, sir; at all events, I was never
called a liar as I can remember."

"Of course not, of course not," returned the affable detective. Then,
without any further introduction: "What was the first name of the lady
you saw married in your master's house last summer?"

"Bless me if I know! I don't think I heard, sir."

"But you recollect how she looked?"

"As well as if she was my own mother. No disrespect to the lady, sir, if
you know her," he made haste to add, glancing hurriedly at me. "What I
mean is, she was so handsome, I could never forget the look of her sweet
face if I lived a hundred years."

"Can you describe her?"

"I don't know, sirs; she was tall and grand-looking, had the brightest
eyes and the whitest hand, and smiled in a way to make even a common man
like me wish he had never seen her."

"Would you know her in a crowd?"

"I would know her anywhere."

"Very well; now tell us all you can about that marriage."

"Well, sirs, it was something like this. I had been in Mr. Stebbins'
employ about a year, when one morning as I was hoeing in the garden
I saw a gentleman walk rapidly up the road to our gate and come in. I
noticed him particularly, because he was so fine-looking; unlike anybody
in F----, and, indeed, unlike anybody I had ever seen, for that matter;
but I shouldn't have thought much about that if there hadn't come along,
not five minutes after, a buggy with two ladies in it, which stopped at
our gate, too. I saw they wanted to get out, so I went and held their
horse for them, and they got down and went into the house."

"Did you see their faces?"

"No, sir; not then. They had veils on."

"Very well, go on."

"I hadn't been to work long, before I heard some one calling my name,
and looking up, saw Mr. Stebbins standing in the doorway beckoning. I
went to him, and he said, 'I want you, Tim; wash your hands and come
into the parlor.' I had never been asked to do that before, and it
struck me all of a heap; but I did what he asked, and was so taken
aback at the looks of the lady I saw standing up on the floor with
the handsome gentleman, that I stumbled over a stool and made a great
racket, and didn't know much where I was or what was going on, till I
heard Mr. Stebbins say 'man and wife'; and then it came over me in a hot
kind of way that it was a marriage I was seeing."

Timothy Cook stopped to wipe his forehead, as if overcome with the very
recollection, and Mr. Gryce took the opportunity to remark:

"You say there were two ladies; now where was the other one at this
time?"

"She was there, sir; but I didn't mind much about her, I was so taken up
with the handsome one and the way she had of smiling when any one looked
at her. I never saw the beat."

I felt a quick thrill go through me.

"Can you remember the color of her hair or eyes?"

"No, sir; I had a feeling as if she wasn't dark, and that is all I
know."

"But you remember her face?"

"Yes, sir!"

Mr. Gryce here whispered me to procure two pictures which I would find
in a certain drawer in his desk, and set them up in different parts of
the room unbeknown to the man.

"You have before said," pursued Mr. Gryce, "that you have no remembrance
of her name. Now, how was that? Weren't you called upon to sign the
certificate?"

"Yes, sir; but I am most ashamed to say it; I was in a sort of maze,
and didn't hear much, and only remember it was a Mr. Clavering she was
married to, and that some one called some one else Elner, or something
like that. I wish I hadn't been so stupid, sir, if it would have done
you any good."

"Tell us about the signing of the certificate," said Mr. Gryce.

"Well, sir, there isn't much to tell. Mr. Stebbins asked me to put my
name down in a certain place on a piece of paper he pushed towards me,
and I put it down there; that is all."

"Was there no other name there when you wrote yours?"

"No, sir. Afterwards Mr. Stebbins turned towards the other lady, who now
came forward, and asked her if she wouldn't please sign it, too; and she
said,' yes,' and came very quickly and did so."

"And didn't you see her face then?"

"No, sir; her back was to me when she threw by her veil, and I only saw
Mr. Stebbins staring at her as she stooped, with a kind of wonder on his
face, which made me think she might have been something worth looking at
too; but I didn't see her myself."

"Well, what happened then?"

"I don't know, sir. I went stumbling out of the room, and didn't see
anything more."

"Where were you when the ladies went away?"

"In the garden, sir. I had gone back to my work."

"You saw them, then. Was the gentleman with them?"

"No, sir; that was the queer part of it all. They went back as they
came, and so did he; and in a few minutes Mr. Stebbins came out where I
was, and told me I was to say nothing about what I had seen, for it was
a secret."

"Were you the only one in the house who knew anything about it? Weren't
there any women around?"

"No, sir; Miss Stebbins had gone to the sewing circle."

I had by this time some faint impression of what Mr. Gryce's suspicions
were, and in arranging the pictures had placed one, that of Eleanore, on
the mantel-piece, and the other, which was an uncommonly fine photograph
of Mary, in plain view on the desk. But Mr. Cook's back was as yet
towards that part of the room, and, taking advantage of the moment,
I returned and asked him if that was all he had to tell us about this
matter.

"Yes, sir."

"Then," said Mr. Gryce, with a glance at Q, "isn't there something you
can give Mr. Cook in payment for his story? Look around, will you?"

Q nodded, and moved towards a cupboard in the wall at the side of the
mantel-piece; Mr. Cook following him with his eyes, as was natural,
when, with a sudden start, he crossed the room and, pausing before the
mantelpiece, looked at the picture of Eleanore which I had put there,
gave a low grunt of satisfaction or pleasure, looked at it again, and
walked away. I felt my heart leap into my throat, and, moved by what
impulse of dread or hope I cannot say, turned my back, when suddenly I
heard him give vent to a startled exclamation, followed by the words:
"Why! here she is; this is her, sirs," and turning around saw him
hurrying towards us with Mary's picture in his hands.

I do not know as I was greatly surprised. I was powerfully excited, as
well as conscious of a certain whirl of thought, and an unsettling of
old conclusions that was very confusing; but surprised? No. Mr. Gryce's
manner had too well prepared me.

"This the lady who was married to Mr. Clavering, my good man? I guess
you are mistaken," cried the detective, in a very incredulous tone.

"Mistaken? Didn't I say I would know her anywhere? This is the lady, if
she is the president's wife herself." And Mr. Cook leaned over it with a
devouring look that was not without its element of homage.

"I am very much astonished," Mr. Gryce went on, winking at me in a slow,
diabolical way which in another mood would have aroused my fiercest
anger. "Now, if you had said the other lady was the one"--pointing to
the picture on the mantelpiece," I shouldn't have wondered."

"She? I never saw that lady before; but this one--would you mind telling
me her name, sirs?"

"If what you say is true, her name is Mrs. Clavering."

"Clavering? Yes, that was his name."

"And a very lovely lady," said Mr. Gryce. "Morris, haven't you found
anything yet?"

Q, for answer, brought forward glasses and a bottle.

But Mr. Cook was in no mood for liquor. I think he was struck with
remorse; for, looking from the picture to Q, and from Q to the picture,
he said:

"If I have done this lady wrong by my talk, I'll never forgive myself.
You told me I would help her to get her rights; if you have deceived me
----"

"Oh, I haven't deceived you," broke in Q, in his short, sharp way. "Ask
that gentleman there if we are not all interested in Mrs. Clavering
getting her due."

He had designated me; but I was in no mood to reply. I longed to
have the man dismissed, that I might inquire the reason of the great
complacency which I now saw overspreading Mr. Gryce's frame, to his very
finger-ends.

"Mr. Cook needn't be concerned," remarked Mr. Gryce. "If he will take
a glass of warm drink to fortify him for his walk, I think he may go to
the lodgings Mr. Morris has provided for him without fear. Give the gent
a glass, and let him mix for himself."

But it was full ten minutes before we were delivered of the man and his
vain regrets. Mary's image had called up every latent feeling in his
heart, and I could but wonder over a loveliness capable of swaying the
low as well as the high. But at last he yielded to the seductions of the
now wily Q, and departed.

Left alone with Mr. Gryce, I must have allowed some of the confused
emotions which filled my breast to become apparent on my countenance;
for after a few minutes of ominous silence, he exclaimed very grimly,
and yet with a latent touch of that complacency I had before noticed:

"This discovery rather upsets you, doesn't it? Well, it don't me,"
shutting his mouth like a trap. "I expected it."

"Your conclusions must differ very materially from mine," I returned;
"or you would see that this discovery alters the complexion of the whole
affair."

"It does not alter the truth."

"What is the truth?"

Mr. Gryce's very legs grew thoughtful; his voice sank to its deepest
tone. "Do you very much want to know?"

"Want to know the truth? What else are we after?"

"Then," said he, "to my notion, the complexion of things has altered,
but very much for the better. As long as Eleanore was believed to be
the wife, her action in this matter was accounted for; but the tragedy
itself was not. Why should Eleanore or Eleanore's husband wish the death
of a man whose bounty they believed would end with his life? But with
Mary, the heiress, proved the wife!--I tell you, Mr. Raymond, it all
hangs together now. You must never, in reckoning up an affair of murder
like this, forget who it is that most profits by the deceased man's
death."

"But Eleanore's silence? her concealment of certain proofs and evidences
in her own breast--how will you account for that? I can imagine a woman
devoting herself to the shielding of a husband from the consequences of
crime; but a cousin's husband, never."

Mr. Gryce put his feet very close together, and softly grunted. "Then
you still think Mr. Clavering the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth?"

I could only stare at him in my sudden doubt and dread. "Still think?" I
repeated.

"Mr. Clavering the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth?"

"Why, what else is there to think? You don't--you can't--suspect
Eleanore of having deliberately undertaken to help her cousin out of a
difficulty by taking the life of their mutual benefactor?"

"No," said Mr. Gryce; "no, I do not think Eleanore Leavenworth had any
hand in the business."

"Then who--" I began, and stopped, lost in the dark vista that was
opening before me.

"Who? Why, who but the one whose past deceit and present necessity
demanded his death as a relief? Who but the beautiful, money-loving,
man-deceiving goddess----"

I leaped to my feet in my sudden horror and repugnance. "Do not mention
the name! You are wrong; but do not speak the name."

"Excuse me," said he; "but it will have to be spoken many times, and we
may as well begin here and now--who then but Mary Leavenworth; or, if
you like it better, Mrs. Henry Clavering? Are you so much surprised? It
has been my thought from the beginning."



XXVI. MR. GRYCE EXPLAINS HIMSELF


    "Sits the wind in that corner?"
        --Much Ado about Nothing.

I DO not propose to enter into a description of the mingled feelings
aroused in me by this announcement. As a drowning man is said to live
over in one terrible instant the events of a lifetime, so each word
uttered in my hearing by Mary, from her first introduction to me in her
own room, on the morning of the inquest, to our final conversation on
the night of Mr. Clavering's call, swept in one wild phantasmagoria
through my brain, leaving me aghast at the signification which her whole
conduct seemed to acquire from the lurid light which now fell upon it.

"I perceive that I have pulled down an avalanche of doubts about your
ears," exclaimed my companion from the height of his calm superiority.
"You never thought of this possibility, then, yourself?"

"Do not ask me what I have thought. I only know I will never believe
your suspicions true. That, however much Mary may have been benefited by
her uncle's death, she never had a hand in it; actual hand, I mean."

"And what makes you so sure of this?"

"And what makes you so sure of the contrary? It is for you to prove, not
for me to prove her innocence."

"Ah," said Mr. Gryce, in his slow, sarcastic way, "you recollect that
principle of law, do you? If I remember rightly, you have not always
been so punctilious in regarding it, or wishing to have it regarded,
when the question was whether Mr. Clavering was the assassin or not."

"But he is a man. It does not seem so dreadful to accuse a man of a
crime. But a woman! and such a woman! I cannot listen to it; it is
horrible. Nothing short of absolute confession on her part will ever
make me believe Mary Leavenworth, or any other woman, committed this
deed. It was too cruel, too deliberate, too----"

"Read the criminal records," broke in Mr. Gryce.

But I was obstinate. "I do not care for the criminal records. All the
criminal records in the world would never make me believe Eleanore
perpetrated this crime, nor will I be less generous towards her cousin.
Mary Leavenworth is a faulty woman, but not a guilty one."

"You are more lenient in your judgment of her than her cousin was, it
appears."

"I do not understand you," I muttered, feeling a new and yet more
fearful light breaking upon me.

"What! have you forgotten, in the hurry of these late events, the
sentence of accusation which we overheard uttered between these ladies
on the morning of the inquest?"

"No, but----"

"You believed it to have been spoken by Mary to Eleanore?"

"Of course; didn't you?"

Oh, the smile which crossed Mr. Gryce's face! "Scarcely. I left that
baby-play for you. I thought one was enough to follow on that tack."

The light, the light that was breaking upon me! "And do you mean to say
it was Eleanore who was speaking at that time? That I have been laboring
all these weeks under a terrible mistake, and that you could have
righted me with a word, and did not?"

"Well, as to that, I had a purpose in letting you follow your own lead
for a while. In the first place, I was not sure myself which spoke;
though I had but little doubt about the matter. The voices are, as you
must have noticed, very much alike, while the attitudes in which we
found them upon entering were such as to be explainable equally by the
supposition that Mary was in the act of launching a denunciation, or in
that of repelling one. So that, while I did not hesitate myself as to
the true explanation of the scene before me, I was pleased to find you
accept a contrary one; as in this way both theories had a chance of
being tested; as was right in a case of so much mystery. You accordingly
took up the affair with one idea for your starting-point, and I with
another. You saw every fact as it developed through the medium of Mary's
belief in Eleanore's guilt, and I through the opposite. And what has
been the result? With you, doubt, contradiction, constant unsettlement,
and unwarranted resorts to strange sources for reconcilement between
appearances and your own convictions; with me, growing assurance, and
a belief which each and every development so far has but served to
strengthen and make more probable."

Again that wild panorama of events, looks, and words swept before me.
Mary's reiterated assertions of her cousin's innocence, Eleanore's
attitude of lofty silence in regard to certain matters which might be
considered by her as pointing towards the murderer.

"Your theory must be the correct one," I finally admitted; "it was
undoubtedly Eleanore who spoke. She believes in Mary's guilt, and I have
been blind, indeed, not to have seen it from the first."

"If Eleanore Leavenworth believes in her cousin's criminality, she must
have some good reasons for doing so."

I was obliged to admit that too. "She did not conceal in her bosom that
telltale key,--found who knows where?--and destroy, or seek to destroy,
it and the letter which introduced her cousin to the public as the
unprincipled destroyer of a trusting man's peace, for nothing."

"No, no."

"And yet you, a stranger, a young man who have never seen Mary
Leavenworth in any other light than that in which her coquettish nature
sought to display itself, presume to say she is innocent, in the face of
the attitude maintained from the first by her cousin!"

"But," said I, in my great unwillingness to accept his conclusions,
"Eleanore Leavenworth is but mortal. She may have been mistaken in her
inferences. She has never stated what her suspicion was founded upon;
nor can we know what basis she has for maintaining the attitude you
speak of. Clavering is as likely as Mary to be the assassin, for all we
know, and possibly for all she knows."

"You seem to be almost superstitious in your belief in Clavering's
guilt."

I recoiled. Was I? Could it be that Mr. Harwell's fanciful conviction in
regard to this man had in any way influenced me to the detriment of my
better judgment?

"And you may be right," Mr. Gryce went on. "I do not pretend to be set
in my notions. Future investigation may succeed in fixing something upon
him; though I hardly think it likely. His behavior as the secret husband
of a woman possessing motives for the commission of a crime has been too
consistent throughout."

"All except his leaving her."

"No exception at all; for he hasn't left her."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that, instead of leaving the country, Mr. Clavering has only
made pretence of doing so. That, in place of dragging himself off to
Europe at her command, he has only changed his lodgings, and can now be
found, not only in a house opposite to hers, but in the window of that
house, where he sits day after day watching who goes in and out of her
front door."

I remembered his parting injunction to me, in that memorable interview
we had in my office, and saw myself compelled to put a new construction
upon it.

"But I was assured at the Hoffman House that he had sailed for Europe,
and myself saw the man who professes to have driven him to the steamer."

"Just so."

"And Mr. Clavering returned to the city after that?"

"In another carriage, and to another house."

"And you tell me that man is all right?"

"No; I only say there isn't the shadow of evidence against him as the
person who shot Mr. Leavenworth."

Rising, I paced the floor, and for a few minutes silence fell between
us. But the clock, striking, recalled me to the necessity of the hour,
and, turning, I asked Mr. Gryce what he proposed to do now.

"There is but one thing I can do," said he.

"And that is?"

"To go upon such lights as I have, and cause the arrest of Miss
Leavenworth."

I had by this time schooled myself to endurance, and was able to hear
this without uttering an exclamation. But I could not let it pass
without making one effort to combat his determination.

"But," said I, "I do not see what evidence you have, positive enough in
its character, to warrant extreme measures. You have yourself intimated
that the existence of motive is not enough, even though taken with
the fact of the suspected party being in the house at the time of the
murder; and what more have you to urge against Miss Leavenworth?"

"Pardon me. I said 'Miss Leavenworth'; I should have said 'Eleanore
Leavenworth.'"

"Eleanore? What! when you and all unite in thinking that she alone of
all these parties to the crime is utterly guiltless of wrong?"

"And yet who is the only one against whom positive testimony of any kind
can be brought."

I could but acknowledge that.

"Mr. Raymond," he remarked very gravely; "the public is becoming
clamorous; something must be done to satisfy it, if only for the moment.
Eleanore has laid herself open to the suspicion of the police, and
must take the consequences of her action. I am sorry; she is a noble
creature; I admire her; but justice is justice, and though I think her
innocent, I shall be forced to put her under arrest unless----"

"But I cannot be reconciled to it. It is doing an irretrievable injury
to one whose only fault is an undue and mistaken devotion to an unworthy
cousin. If Mary is the----."

"Unless something occurs between now and tomorrow morning," Mr. Gryce
went on, as if I had not spoken.

"To-morrow morning?"

"Yes."

I tried to realize it; tried to face the fact that all my efforts had
been for nothing, and failed.

"Will you not grant me one more day?" I asked in my desperation.

"What to do?"

Alas, I did not know. "To confront Mr. Clavering, and force from him the
truth."

"To make a mess of the whole affair!" he growled. "No, sir; the die is
cast. Eleanore Leavenworth knows the one point which fixes this
crime upon her cousin, and she must tell us that point or suffer the
consequences of her refusal."

I made one more effort.

"But why to-morrow? Having exhausted so much time already in our
inquiries, why not take a little more; especially as the trail is
constantly growing warmer? A little more moleing----"

"A little more folderol!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce, losing his temper. "No,
sir; the hour for moleing has passed; something decisive has got to be
done now; though, to be sure, if I could find the one missing link I
want----"

"Missing link? What is that?"

"The immediate motive of the tragedy; a bit of proof that Mr.
Leavenworth threatened his niece with his displeasure, or Mr. Clavering
with his revenge, would place me on the vantage-point at once; no
arresting of Eleanore then! No, my lady! I would walk right into your
own gilded parlors, and when you asked me if I had found the murderer
yet, say 'yes,' and show you a bit of paper which would surprise you!
But missing links are not so easily found. This has been moled for, and
moled for, as you are pleased to call our system of investigation, and
totally without result. Nothing but the confession of some one of these
several parties to the crime will give us what we want. I will tell you
what I will do," he suddenly cried. "Miss Leavenworth has desired me to
report to her; she is very anxious for the detection of the murderer,
you know, and offers an immense reward. Well, I will gratify this desire
of hers. The suspicions I have, together with my reasons for them, will
make an interesting disclosure. I should not greatly wonder if they
produced an equally interesting confession."

I could only jump to my feet in my horror.

"At all events, I propose to try it. Eleanore is worth that much risk
any way."

"It will do no good," said I. "If Mary is guilty, she will never confess
it. If not----"

"She will tell us who is."

"Not if it is Clavering, her husband."

"Yes; even if it is Clavering, her husband. She has not the devotion of
Eleanore."

That I could but acknowledge. She would hide no keys for the sake of
shielding another: no, if Mary were accused, she would speak. The future
opening before us looked sombre enough. And yet when, in a short time
from that, I found myself alone in a busy street, the thought that
Eleanore was free rose above all others, filling and moving me till my
walk home in the rain that day has become a marked memory of my life.
It was only with nightfall that I began to realize the truly critical
position in which Mary stood if Mr. Gryce's theory was correct. But,
once seized with this thought, nothing could drive it from my mind.
Shrink as I would, it was ever before me, haunting me with the direst
forebodings. Nor, though I retired early, could I succeed in getting
either sleep or rest. All night I tossed on my pillow, saying over to
myself with dreary iteration: "Something must happen, something will
happen, to prevent Mr. Gryce doing this dreadful thing." Then I would
start up and ask what could happen; and my mind would run over various
contingencies, such as,--Mr. Clavering might confess; Hannah might come
back; Mary herself wake up to her position and speak the word I had more
than once seen trembling on her lips. But further thought showed me how
unlikely any of these things were to happen, and it was with a brain
utterly exhausted that I fell asleep in the early dawn, to dream I saw
Mary standing above Mr. Gryce with a pistol in her hand. I was awakened
from this pleasing vision by a heavy knock at the door. Hastily rising,
I asked who was there. The answer came in the shape of an envelope
thrust under the door. Raising it, I found it to be a note. It was from
Mr. Gryce, and ran thus:

"Come at once; Hannah Chester is found."

"Hannah found?"

"So we have reason to think."

"When? where? by whom?"

"Sit down, and I will tell you."

Drawing up a chair in a flurry of hope and fear, I sat down by Mr.
Gryce's side.

"She is not in the cupboard," that person dryly assured me, noting
without doubt how my eyes went travelling about the room in my anxiety
and impatience. "We are not absolutely sure that she is anywhere. But
word has come to us that a girl's face believed to be Hannah's has been
seen at the upper window of a certain house in--don't start--R----,
where a year ago she was in the habit of visiting while at the hotel
with the Misses Leavenworth. Now, as it has already been determined that
she left New York the night of the murder, by the ------ ----Railroad,
though for what point we have been unable to ascertain, we consider the
matter worth inquiring into."

"But--"

"If she is there," resumed Mr. Gryce, "she is secreted; kept very
close. No one except the informant has ever seen her, nor is there any
suspicion among the neighbors of her being in town."

"Hannah secreted at a certain house in R----? Whose house?"

Mr. Gryce honored me with one of his grimmest smiles. "The name of
the lady she's with is given in the communication as Belden; Mrs. Amy
Belden."

"Amy Belden! the name found written on a torn envelope by Mr.
Clavering's servant girl in London?"

"Yes."

I made no attempt to conceal my satisfaction. "Then we are upon the
verge of some discovery; Providence has interfered, and Eleanore will be
saved! But when did you get this word?"

"Last night, or rather this morning; Q brought it."

"It was a message, then, to Q?"

"Yes, the result of his moleings while in R----, I suppose."

"Whom was it signed by?"

"A respectable tinsmith who lives next door to Mrs. B."

"And is this the first you knew of an Amy Belden living in R----?"

"Yes."

"Widow or wife?"

"Don't know; don't know anything about her but her name."

"But you have already sent Q to make inquiries?"

"No; the affair is a little too serious for him to manage alone. He is
not equal to great occasions, and might fail just for the lack of a keen
mind to direct him."

"In short----"

"I wish you to go. Since I cannot be there myself, I know of no one else
sufficiently up in the affair to conduct it to a successful issue.
You see, it is not enough to find and identify the girl. The present
condition of things demands that the arrest of so important a witness
should be kept secret. Now, for a man to walk into a strange house in a
distant village, find a girl who is secreted there, frighten her,
cajole her, force her, as the case may be, from her hiding-place to a
detective's office in New York, and all without the knowledge of the
next-door neighbor, if possible, requires judgment, brains, genius. Then
the woman who conceals her! She must have her reasons for doing so; and
they must be known. Altogether, the affair is a delicate one. Do you
think you can manage it?"

"I should at least like to try."

Mr. Gryce settled himself on the sofa. "To think what pleasure I am
losing on your account!" he grumbled, gazing reproachfully at his
helpless limbs. "But to business. How soon can you start?"

"Immediately."

"Good! a train leaves the depot at 12.15. Take that. Once in R----,
it will be for you to decide upon the means of making Mrs. Belden's
acquaintance without arousing her suspicions. Q, who will follow you,
will hold himself in readiness to render you any assistance you may
require. Only this thing is to be understood: as he will doubtless go in
disguise, you are not to recognize him, much less interfere with him
and his plans, till he gives you leave to do so, by some preconcerted
signal. You are to work in your way, and he in his, till circumstances
seem to call for mutual support and countenance. I cannot even say
whether you will see him or not; he may find it necessary to keep out of
the way; but you may be sure of one thing, that he will know where
you are, and that the display of, well, let us say a red silk
handkerchief--have you such a thing?"

"I will get one."

"Will be regarded by him as a sign that you desire his presence or
assistance, whether it be shown about your person or at the window of
your room."

"And these are all the instructions you can give me?" I said, as he
paused.

"Yes, I don't know of anything else. You must depend largely upon your
own discretion, and the exigencies of the moment. I cannot tell you now
what to do. Your own wit will be the best guide. Only, if possible, let
me either hear from you or see you by to-morrow at this time."

And he handed me a cipher in case I should wish to telegraph.



BOOK III. HANNAH



XXVII. AMY BELDEN


    "A merrier man
    Within the limits of becoming mirth,
    I never spent an hour's talk withal."
        --Love's Labour's Last.

I HAD a client in R---- by the name of Monell; and it was from him I
had planned to learn the best way of approaching Mrs. Belden. When,
therefore, I was so fortunate as to meet him, almost on my arrival,
driving on the long road behind his famous trotter Alfred, I regarded
the encounter as a most auspicious beginning of a very doubtful
enterprise.

"Well, and how goes the day?" was his exclamation as, the first
greetings passed, we drove rapidly into town.

"Your part in it goes pretty smoothly," I returned; and thinking I could
never hope to win his attention to my own affairs till I had satisfied
him in regard to his, I told him all I could concerning the law-suit
then pending; a subject so prolific of question and answer, that we
had driven twice round the town before he remembered he had a letter to
post. As it was an important one, admitting of no delay, we hasted at
once to the post-office, where he went in, leaving me outside to watch
the rather meagre stream of goers and comers who at that time of day
make the post-office of a country town their place of rendezvous. Among
these, for some reason, I especially noted one middle-aged woman; why, I
cannot say; her appearance was anything but remarkable. And yet when
she came out, with two letters in her hand, one in a large and one in a
small envelope, and meeting my eye hastily drew them under her shawl,
I found myself wondering what was in her letters and who she could be,
that the casual glance of a stranger should unconsciously move her to an
action so suspicious. But Mr. Monell's reappearance at the same moment,
diverted my attention, and in the interest of the conversation that
followed, I soon forgot both the woman and her letters. For determined
that he should have no opportunity to revert to that endless topic, a
law case, I exclaimed with the first crack of the whip,--"There, I knew
there was something I wanted to ask you. It is this: Are you acquainted
with any one is this town by the name of Belden?"

"There is a widow Belden in town; I don't know of any other."

"Is her first name Amy?"

"Yes, Mrs. Amy Belden."

"That is the one," said I. "Who is she, what is she, and what is the
extent of your acquaintance with her?"

"Well," said he, " I cannot conceive why you should be interested in
such an antiquated piece of commonplace goodness as she is, but seeing
you ask, I have no objection to telling you that she is the very
respectable relict of a deceased cabinetmaker of this town; that she
lives in a little house down the street there, and that if you have any
forlorn old tramp to be lodged over night, or any destitute family of
little ones to be looked after, she is the one to go to. As to knowing
her, I know her as I do a dozen other members of our church there up
over the hill. When I see her I speak to her, and that is all."

"A respectable widow, you say. Any family?"

"No; lives alone, has a little income, I believe; must have, to put the
money on the plate she always does; but spends her time in plain sewing
and such deeds of charity, as one with small means but willing heart can
find the opportunity of doing in a town like this. But why in the name
of wonders do you ask?"

"Business," said I, "business. Mrs. Belden--don't mention it by the
way--has got mixed up in a case of mine, and I felt it due to my
curiosity if not to my purse, to find out something about her. And I am
not satisfied yet. The fact is I would give something, Monell, for the
opportunity of studying this woman's character. Now couldn't you manage
to get me introduced into her house in some way that would make it
possible and proper for me to converse with her at my leisure? Business
would thank you if you could."

"Well, I don't know; I suppose it could be done. She used to take
lodgers in the summer when the hotel was full, and might be induced
to give a bed to a friend of mine who is very anxious to be near the
post-office on account of a business telegram he is expecting, and which
when it comes will demand his immediate attention." And Mr. Monell gave
me a sly wink of his eye, little imagining how near the mark he had
struck.

"You need not say that. Tell her I have a peculiar dislike to sleeping
in a public house, and that you know of no one better fitted to
accommodate me, for the short time I desire to be in town, than
herself."

"And what will be said of my hospitality in allowing you under these
circumstances to remain in any other house than my own?"

"I don't know; very hard things, no doubt; but I guess your hospitality
can stand it."

"Well, if you persist, we will see what can be done." And driving up to
a neat white cottage of homely, but sufficiently attractive appearance,
he stopped.

"This is her house," said he, jumping to the ground; "let's go in and
see what we can do."

Glancing up at the windows, which were all closed save the two on the
veranda overlooking the street, I thought to myself, "If she has anybody
in hiding here, whose presence in the house she desires to keep secret,
it is folly to hope she will take me in, however well recommended I may
come." But, yielding to the example of my friend, I alighted in my turn
and followed him up the short, grass-bordered walk to the front door.

"As she has no servant, she will come to the door herself, so be ready,"
he remarked as he knocked.

I had barely time to observe that the curtains to the window at my left
suddenly dropped, when a hasty step made itself heard within, and a
quick hand drew open the door; and I saw before me the woman whom I
had observed at the post-office, and whose action with the letters had
struck me as peculiar. I recognized her at first glance, though she
was differently dressed, and had evidently passed through some worry or
excitement that had altered the expression of her countenance, and
made her manner what it was not at that time, strained and a trifle
uncertain. But I saw no reason for thinking she remembered me. On the
contrary, the look she directed towards me had nothing but inquiry in
it, and when Mr. Monell pushed me forward with the remark, "A friend
of mine; in fact my lawyer from New York," she dropped a hurried
old-fashioned curtsey whose only expression was a manifest desire to
appear sensible of the honor conferred upon her, through the mist of a
certain trouble that confused everything about her.

"We have come to ask a favor, Mrs. Belden; but may we not come in? "said
my client in a round, hearty voice well calculated to recall a person's
thoughts into their proper channel. "I have heard many times of your
cosy home, and am glad of this opportunity of seeing it." And with a
blind disregard to the look of surprised resistance with which she met
his advance, he stepped gallantly into the little room whose cheery
red carpet and bright picture-hung walls showed invitingly through the
half-open door at our left.

Finding her premises thus invaded by a sort of French _coup d'etat,_
Mrs. Belden made the best of the situation, and pressing me to enter
also, devoted herself to hospitality. As for Mr. Monell, he quite
blossomed out in his endeavors to make himself agreeable; so much so,
that I shortly found myself laughing at his sallies, though my heart was
full of anxiety lest, after all, our efforts should fail of the success
they certainly merited. Meanwhile, Mrs. Belden softened more and more,
joining in the conversation with an ease hardly to be expected from one
in her humble circumstances. Indeed, I soon saw she was no common woman.
There was a refinement in her speech and manner, which, combined with
her motherly presence and gentle air, was very pleasing. The last woman
in the world to suspect of any underhanded proceeding, if she had not
shown a peculiar hesitation when Mr. Monell broached the subject of my
entertainment there.

"I don't know, sir; I would be glad, but," and she turned a very
scrutinizing look upon me, "the fact is, I have not taken lodgers of
late, and I have got out of the way of the whole thing, and am afraid I
cannot make him comfortable. In short, you will have to excuse me."

"But we can't," returned Mr. Monell. "What, entice a fellow into a room
like this"--and he cast a hearty admiring glance round the apartment
which, for all its simplicity, both its warm coloring and general air of
cosiness amply merited, "and then turn a cold shoulder upon him when he
humbly entreats the honor of staying a single night in the enjoyment
of its attractions? No, no, Mrs. Belden; I know you too well for that.
Lazarus himself couldn't come to your door and be turned away; much less
a good-hearted, clever-headed young gentleman like my friend here."

"You are very good," she began, an almost weak love of praise showing
itself for a moment in her eyes; "but I have no room prepared. I have
been house-cleaning, and everything is topsy-turvy Mrs. Wright, now,
over the way----"

"My young friend is going to stop here," Mr. Mouell broke in, with frank
positiveness. "If I cannot have him at my own house,--and for certain
reasons it is not advisable,--I shall at least have the satisfaction of
knowing he is in the charge of the best housekeeper in R----."

"Yes," I put in, but without too great a show of interest; "I should be
sorry, once introduced here, to be obliged to go elsewhere."

The troubled eye wavered away from us to the door.

"I was never called inhospitable," she commenced; "but everything in
such disorder. What time would you like to come?"

"I was in hopes I might remain now," I replied; "I have some letters
to write, and ask nothing better than for leave to sit here and write
them."

At the word letters I saw her hand go to her pocket in a movement which
must have been involuntary, for her countenance did not change, and she
made the quick reply:

"Well, you may. If you can put up with such poor accommodations as I can
offer, it shall not be said I refused you what Mr. Monell is pleased to
call a favor."

And, complete in her reception as she had been in her resistance, she
gave us a pleasant smile, and, ignoring my thanks, bustled out with Mr.
Monell to the buggy, where she received my bag and what was, doubtless,
more to her taste, the compliments he was now more than ever ready to
bestow upon her.

"I will see that a room is got ready for you in a very short space of
time," she said, upon re-entering. "Meanwhile, make yourself at home
here; and if you wish to write, why I think you will find everything for
the purpose in these drawers." And wheeling up a table to the easy chair
in which I sat, she pointed to the small compartments beneath, with
an air of such manifest desire to have me make use of anything and
everything she had, that I found myself wondering over my position with
a sort of startled embarrassment that was not remote from shame.

"Thank you; I have materials of my own," said I, and hastened to open my
bag and bring out the writing-case, which I always carried with me.

"Then I will leave you," said she; and with a quick bend and a short,
hurried look out of the window, she hastily quitted the room.

I could hear her steps cross the hall, go up two or three stairs, pause,
go up the rest of the flight, pause again, and then pass on. I was left
on the first floor alone.



XXVIII. A WEIRD EXPERIENCE


    "Flat burglary as ever was committed."
        --Much Ado about Nothing.

THE first thing I did was to inspect with greater care the room in which
I sat.

It was a pleasant apartment, as I have already said; square, sunny, and
well furnished. On the floor was a crimson carpet, on the walls several
pictures, at the windows, cheerful curtains of white, tastefully
ornamented with ferns and autumn leaves; in one corner an old melodeon,
and in the centre of the room a table draped with a bright cloth, on
which were various little knick-knacks which, without being rich or
expensive, were both pretty and, to a certain extent, ornamental. But
it was not these things, which I had seen repeated in many other country
homes, that especially attracted my attention, or drew me forward in the
slow march which I now undertook around the room. It was the something
underlying all these, the evidences which I found, or sought to find,
not only in the general aspect of the room, but in each trivial object
I encountered, of the character, disposition, and history of the woman
with whom I now had to deal. It was for this reason I studied the
daguerreotypes on the mantel-piece, the books on the shelf, and the
music on the rack; for this and the still further purpose of noting if
any indications were to be found of there being in the house any such
person as Hannah.

First then, for the little library, which I was pleased to see occupied
one corner of the room. Composed of a few well-chosen books, poetical,
historical, and narrative, it was of itself sufficient to account
for the evidences of latent culture observable in Mrs. Belden's
conversation. Taking out a well-worn copy of _Byron,_ I opened it. There
were many passages marked, and replacing the book with a mental comment
upon her evident impressibility to the softer emotions, I turned towards
the melodeon fronting me from the opposite wall. It was closed, but on
its neatly-covered top lay one or two hymn-books, a basket of russet
apples, and a piece of half-completed knitting work.

I took up the latter, but was forced to lay it down again without a
notion for what it was intended. Proceeding, I next stopped before
a window opening upon the small yard that ran about the house, and
separated it from the one adjoining. The scene without failed to attract
me, but the window itself drew my attention, for, written with a diamond
point on one of the panes, I perceived a row of letters which, as
nearly as I could make out, were meant for some word or words, but which
utterly failed in sense or apparent connection. Passing it by as the
work of some school-girl, I glanced down at the work-basket standing on
a table at my side. It was full of various kinds of work, among which I
spied a pair of stockings, which were much too small, as well as in too
great a state of disrepair, to belong to Mrs. Belden; and drawing them
carefully out, I examined them for any name on them. Do not start when I
say I saw the letter H plainly marked upon them. Thrusting them back,
I drew a deep breath of relief, gazing, as I did so, out of the window,
when those letters again attracted my attention.

What could they mean? Idly I began to read them backward, when--But try
for yourself, reader, and judge of my surprise! Elate at the discovery
thus made, I sat down to write my letters. I had barely finished them,
when Mrs. Belden came in with the announcement that supper was ready.
"As for your room," said she, "I have prepared my own room for your use,
thinking you would like to remain on the first floor." And, throwing
open a door at my side, she displayed a small, but comfortable room,
in which I could dimly see a bed, an immense bureau, and a shadowy
looking-glass in a dark, old-fashioned frame.

"I live in very primitive fashion," she resumed, leading the way into
the dining-room; "but I mean to be comfortable and make others so."

"I should say you amply succeeded," I rejoined, with an appreciative
glance at her well-spread board.

She smiled, and I felt I had paved the way to her good graces in a way
that would yet redound to my advantage.

Shall I ever forget that supper! its dainties, its pleasant freedom, its
mysterious, pervading atmosphere of unreality, and the constant sense
which every bountiful dish she pressed upon me brought of the shame of
eating this woman's food with such feelings of suspicion in my heart!
Shall I ever forget the emotion I experienced when I first perceived
she had something on her mind, which she longed, yet hesitated, to give
utterance to! Or how she started when a cat jumped from the sloping roof
of the kitchen on to the grass-plot at the back of the house; or how my
heart throbbed when I heard, or thought I heard, a board creak overhead!
We were in a long and narrow room which seemed, curiously enough, to run
crosswise of the house, opening on one side into the parlor, and on the
other into the small bedroom, which had been allotted to my use.

"You live in this house alone, without fear?" I asked, as Mrs. Belden,
contrary to my desire, put another bit of cold chicken on my plate.
"Have you no marauders in this town: no tramps, of whom a solitary woman
like you might reasonably be afraid?"

"No one will hurt me," said she; "and no one ever came here for food or
shelter but got it."

"I should think, then, that living as you do, upon a railroad, you would
be constantly overrun with worthless beings whose only trade is to take
all they can get without giving a return."

"I cannot turn them away. It is the only luxury I have: to feed the
poor."

"But the idle, restless ones, who neither will work, nor let others
work----"

"Are still the poor."

Mentally remarking, here is the woman to shield an unfortunate who has
somehow become entangled in the meshes of a great crime, I drew back
from the table. As I did so, the thought crossed me that, in case
there was any such person in the house as Hannah, she would take the
opportunity of going up-stairs with something for her to eat; and that
she might not feel hampered by my presence, I stepped out on the veranda
with my cigar.

While smoking it, I looked about for Q. I felt that the least token
of his presence in town would be very encouraging at this time. But it
seemed I was not to be afforded even that small satisfaction. If Q was
anywhere near, he was lying very low.

Once again seated with Mrs. Belden (who I know came down-stairs with an
empty plate, for going into the kitchen for a drink, I caught her in
the act of setting it down on the table), I made up my mind to wait a
reasonable length of time for what she had to say; and then, if she did
not speak, make an endeavor on my own part to surprise her secret.

But her avowal was nearer and of a different nature from what I
expected, and brought its own train of consequences with it.

"You are a lawyer, I believe," she began, taking down her knitting work,
with a forced display of industry.

"Yes," I said; "that is my profession."

She remained for a moment silent, creating great havoc in her work I am
sure, from the glance of surprise and vexation she afterwards threw it.
Then, in a hesitating voice, remarked:

"Perhaps you may be willing, then, to give me some advice. The truth is,
I am in a very curious predicament; one from which I don't know how to
escape, and yet which demands immediate action. I should like to tell
you about it; may I?"

"You may; I shall be only too happy to give you any advice in my power."

She drew in her breath with a sort of vague relief, though her forehead
did not lose its frown.

"It can all be said in a few words. I have in my possession a package of
papers which were intrusted to me by two ladies, with the understanding
that I should neither return nor destroy them without the full
cognizance and expressed desire of both parties, given in person or
writing. That they were to remain in my hands till then, and that
nothing or nobody should extort them from me."

"That is easily understood," said I; for she stopped.

"But, now comes word from one of the ladies, the one, too, most
interested in the matter, that, for certain reasons, the immediate
destruction of those papers is necessary to her peace and safety."

"And do you want to know what your duty is in this case?"

"Yes," she tremulously replied.

I rose. I could not help it: a flood of conjectures rushing in tumult
over me.

"It is to hold on to the papers like grim death till released from your
guardianship by the combined wish of both parties."

"Is that your opinion as a lawyer?"

"Yes, and as a man. Once pledged in that way, you have no choice. It
would be a betrayal of trust to yield to the solicitations of one party
what you have undertaken to return to both. The fact that grief or loss
might follow your retention of these papers does not release you from
your bond. You have nothing to do with that; besides, you are by no
means sure that the representations of the so-called interested party
are true. You might be doing a greater wrong, by destroying in this way,
what is manifestly considered of value to them both, than by preserving
the papers intact, according to compact."

"But the circumstances? Circumstances alter cases; and in short, it
seems to me that the wishes of the one most interested ought to be
regarded, especially as there is an estrangement between these ladies
which may hinder the other's consent from ever being obtained."

"No," said I; "two wrongs never make a right; nor are we at liberty to
do an act of justice at the expense of an injustice. The papers must be
preserved, Mrs. Belden."

Her head sank very despondingly; evidently it had been her wish to
please the interested party. "Law is very hard," she said; "very hard."

"This is not only law, but plain duty," I remarked. "Suppose a case
different; suppose the honor and happiness of the other party depended
upon the preservation of the papers; where would your duty be then?"

"But----"

"A contract is a contract," said I, "and cannot be tampered with. Having
accepted the trust and given your word, you are obliged to fulfil, to
the letter, all its conditions. It would be a breach of trust for you to
return or destroy the papers without the mutual consent necessary."

An expression of great gloom settled slowly over her features. "I
suppose you are right," said she, and became silent.

Watching her, I thought to myself, "If I were Mr. Gryce, or even Q, I
would never leave this seat till I had probed this matter to the bottom,
learned the names of the parties concerned, and where those precious
papers are hidden, which she declares to be of so much importance." But
being neither, I could only keep her talking upon the subject until
she should let fall some word that might serve as a guide to my further
enlightenment; I therefore turned, with the intention of asking her
some question, when my attention was attracted by the figure of a woman
coming out of the back-door of the neighboring house, who, for general
dilapidation and uncouthness of bearing, was a perfect type of the style
of tramp of whom we had been talking at the supper table. Gnawing a
crust which she threw away as she reached the street, she trudged down
the path, her scanty dress, piteous in its rags and soil, flapping in
the keen spring wind, and revealing ragged shoes red with the mud of the
highway.

"There is a customer that may interest you," said I.

Mrs. Belden seemed to awake from a trance. Rising slowly, she looked
out, and with a rapidly softening gaze surveyed the forlorn creature
before her.

"Poor thing!" she muttered; "but I cannot do much for her to-night. A
good supper is all I can give her."

And, going to the front door, she bade her step round the house to the
kitchen, where, in another moment, I heard the rough creature's voice
rise in one long "Bless you!" that could only have been produced by the
setting before her of the good things with which Mrs. Belden's larder
seemed teeming.

But supper was not all she wanted. After a decent length of time,
employed as I should judge in mastication, I heard her voice rise once
more in a plea for shelter.

"The barn, ma'am, or the wood-house. Any place where I can lie out of
the wind." And she commenced a long tale of want and disease, so piteous
to hear that I was not at all surprised when Mrs. Belden told me,
upon re-entering, that she had consented, notwithstanding her previous
determination, to allow the woman to lie before the kitchen fire for the
night.

"She has such an honest eye," said she; "and charity is my only luxury."

The interruption of this incident effectually broke up our conversation.
Mrs. Belden went up-stairs, and for some time I was left alone to ponder
over what I had heard, and determine upon my future course of action. I
had just reached the conclusion that she would be fully as liable to
be carried away by her feelings to the destruction of the papers in her
charge, as to be governed by the rules of equity I had laid down to her,
when I heard her stealthily descend the stairs and go out by the front
door. Distrustful of her intentions, I took up my hat and hastily
followed her. She was on her way down the main street, and my first
thought was, that she was bound for some neighbor's house or perhaps for
the hotel itself; but the settled swing into which she soon altered her
restless pace satisfied me that she had some distant goal in prospect;
and before long I found myself passing the hotel with its appurtenances,
even the little schoolhouse, that was the last building at this end of
the village, and stepping out into the country beyond. What could it
mean?

But still her fluttering figure hasted on, the outlines of her form,
with its close shawl and neat bonnet, growing fainter and fainter in the
now settled darkness of an April night; and still I followed, walking on
the turf at the side of the road lest she should hear my footsteps and
look round. At last we reached a bridge. Over this I could hear her
pass, and then every sound ceased. She had paused, and was evidently
listening. It would not do for me to pause too, so gathering myself into
as awkward a shape as possible, I sauntered by her down the road, but
arrived at a certain point, stopped, and began retracing my steps with a
sharp lookout for her advancing figure, till I had arrived once more at
the bridge. She was not there.

Convinced now that she had discovered my motive for being in her house
and, by leading me from it, had undertaken to supply Hannah with an
opportunity for escape, I was about to hasten back to the charge I had
so incautiously left, when a strange sound heard at my left arrested me.
It came from the banks of the puny stream which ran under the bridge,
and was like the creaking of an old door on worn-out hinges.

Leaping the fence, I made my way as best I could down the sloping field
in the direction from which the sound came. It was quite dark, and my
progress was slow; so much so, that I began to fear I had ventured upon
a wild-goose chase, when an unexpected streak of lightning shot across
the sky, and by its glare I saw before me what seemed, in the momentary
glimpse I had of it, an old barn. From the rush of waters near at hand,
I judged it to be somewhere on the edge of the stream, and consequently
hesitated to advance, when I heard the sound of heavy breathing near me,
followed by a stir as of some one feeling his way over a pile of loose
boards; and presently, while I stood there, a faint blue light flashed
up from the interior of the barn, and I saw, through the tumbled-down
door that faced me, the form of Mrs. Belden standing with a lighted
match in her hand, gazing round on the four walls that encompassed her.
Hardly daring to breathe, lest I should alarm her, I watched her while
she turned and peered at the roof above her, which was so old as to be
more than half open to the sky, at the flooring beneath, which was in
a state of equal dilapidation, and finally at a small tin box which she
drew from under her shawl and laid on the ground at her feet. The sight
of that box at once satisfied me as to the nature of her errand. She was
going to hide what she dared not destroy; and, relieved upon this point,
I was about to take a step forward when the match went out in her hand.
While she was engaged in lighting another, I considered that perhaps it
would be better for me not to arouse her apprehensions by accosting her
at this time, and thus endanger the success of my main scheme; but
to wait till she was gone, before I endeavored to secure the box.
Accordingly I edged my way up to the side of the barn and waited till
she should leave it, knowing that if I attempted to peer in at the
door, I ran great risk of being seen, owing to the frequent streaks of
lightning which now flashed about us on every side. Minute after minute
went by, with its weird alternations of heavy darkness and sudden
glare; and still she did not come. At last, just as I was about to start
impatiently from my hiding-place, she reappeared, and began to withdraw
with faltering steps toward the bridge. When I thought her quite out of
hearing, I stole from my retreat and entered the barn. It was of course
as dark as Erebus, but thanks to being a smoker I was as well provided
with matches as she had been, and having struck one, I held it up; but
the light it gave was very feeble, and as I did not know just where to
look, it went out before I had obtained more than a cursory glimpse of
the spot where I was. I thereupon lit another; but though I confined my
attention to one place, namely, the floor at my feet, it too went out
before I could conjecture by means of any sign seen there where she had
hidden the box. I now for the first time realized the difficulty before
me. She had probably made up her mind, before she left home, in just
what portion of this old barn she would conceal her treasure; but I had
nothing to guide me: I could only waste matches. And I did waste them. A
dozen had been lit and extinguished before I was so much as sure the box
was not under a pile of debris that lay in one corner, and I had taken
the last in my hand before I became aware that one of the broken boards
of the floor was pushed a little out of its proper position. One match!
and that board was to be raised, the space beneath examined, and the
box, if there, lifted safely out. I concluded not to waste my resources,
so kneeling down in the darkness, I groped for the board, tried it, and
found it to be loose. Wrenching at it with all my strength, I tore it
free and cast it aside; then lighting my match looked into the hole thus
made. Something, I could not tell what, stone or box, met my eye, but
while I reached for it, the match flew out of my hand. Deploring my
carelessness, but determined at all hazards to secure what I had seen,
I dived down deep into the hole, and in another moment had the object of
my curiosity in my hands. It was the box!

Satisfied at this result of my efforts, I turned to depart, my one wish
now being to arrive home before Mrs. Belden. Was this possible? She had
several minutes the start of me; I would have to pass her on the road,
and in so doing might be recognized. Was the end worth the risk? I
decided that it was.

Regaining the highway, I started at a brisk pace. For some little
distance I kept it up, neither overtaking nor meeting any one. But
suddenly, at a turn in the road, I came unexpectedly upon Mrs. Belden,
standing in the middle of the path, looking back. Somewhat disconcerted,
I hastened swiftly by her, expecting her to make some effort to stop me.
But she let me pass without a word. Indeed, I doubt now if she even saw
or heard me. Astonished at this treatment, and still more surprised
that she made no attempt to follow me, I looked back, when I saw what
enchained her to the spot, and made her so unmindful of my presence. The
barn behind us was on fire!

Instantly I realized it was the work of my hands; I had dropped a
half-extinguished match, and it had fallen upon some inflammable
substance.

Aghast at the sight, I paused in my turn, and stood staring. Higher and
higher the red flames mounted, brighter and brighter glowed the clouds
above, the stream beneath; and in the fascination of watching it all,
I forgot Mrs. Belden. But a short, agitated gasp in my vicinity soon
recalled her presence to my mind, and drawing nearer, I heard her
exclaim like a person speaking in a dream, "Well, I didn't mean to do
it"; then lower, and with a certain satisfaction in her tone, "But it's
all right, any way; the thing is lost now for good, and Mary will be
satisfied without any one being to blame."

I did not linger to hear more; if this was the conclusion she had come
to, she would not wait there long, especially as the sound of distant
shouts and running feet announced that a crowd of village boys was on
its way to the scene of the conflagration.

The first thing I did, upon my arrival at the house, was to assure
myself that no evil effects had followed my inconsiderate desertion of
it to the mercies of the tramp she had taken in; the next to retire to
my room, and take a peep at the box. I found it to be a neat tin coffer,
fastened with a lock. Satisfied from its weight that it contained
nothing heavier than the papers of which Mrs. Belden had spoken, I hid
it under the bed and returned to the sitting-room. I had barely taken a
seat and lifted a book when Mrs. Belden came in.

"Well!" cried she, taking off her bonnet and revealing a face much
flushed with exercise, but greatly relieved in expression; "this _is_
a night! It lightens, and there is a fire somewhere down street, and
altogether it is perfectly dreadful out. I hope you have not been
lonesome," she continued, with a keen searching of my face which I
bore in the best way I could. "I had an errand to attend to, but didn't
expect to stay so long."

I returned some nonchalant reply, and she hastened from the room to
fasten up the house.

I waited, but she did not come back; fearful, perhaps, of betraying
herself, she had retired to her own apartment, leaving me to take care
of myself as best I might. I own that I was rather relieved at this. The
fact is, I did not feel equal to any more excitement that night, and was
glad to put off further action until the next day. As soon, then, as
the storm was over, I myself went to bed, and, after several ineffectual
efforts, succeeded in getting asleep.



XXIX. THE MISSING WITNESS


    "I fled and cried out death."
        --Milton.

"MR. RAYMOND!"

The voice was low and searching; it reached me in my dreams, waked me,
and caused me to look up. Morning had begun to break, and by its light I
saw, standing in the open door leading into the dining-room, the forlorn
figure of the tramp who had been admitted into the house the night
before. Angry and perplexed, I was about to bid her be gone, when, to my
great surprise, she pulled out a red handkerchief from her pocket, and I
recognized Q.

"Read that," said he, hastily advancing and putting a slip of paper into
my hand. And, without another word or look, left the room, closing the
door behind him.

Rising in considerable agitation, I took it to the window, and by the
rapidly increasing light, succeeded in making out the rudely scrawled
lines as follows:

"She is here; I have seen her; in the room marked with a cross in the
accompanying plan. Wait till eight o'clock, then go up. I will contrive
some means of getting Mrs. B---- out of the house."

Sketched below this was the following plan of the upper floor:

Hannah, then, was in the small back room over the dining-room, and I had
not been deceived in thinking I had heard steps overhead, the evening
before. Greatly relieved, and yet at the same time much moved at the
near prospect of being brought face to face with one who we had every
reason to believe was acquainted with the dreadful secret involved in
the Leavenworth murder, I lay down once more, and endeavored to catch
another hour's rest. But I soon gave up the effort in despair, and
contented myself with listening to the sounds of awakening life which
now began to make themselves heard in the house and neighborhood.

As Q had closed the door after him, I could only faintly hear Mrs.
Belden when she came down-stairs. But the short, surprised exclamation
which she uttered upon reaching the kitchen and finding the tramp gone
and the back-door wide open, came plainly enough to my ears, and for a
moment I was not sure but that Q had made a mistake in thus leaving so
unceremoniously. But he had not studied Mrs. Belden's character in vain.
As she came, in the course of her preparations for breakfast, into the
room adjoining mine, I could hear her murmur to herself:

"Poor thing! She has lived so long in the fields and at the roadside,
she finds it unnatural to be cooped up in the house all night."

The trial of that breakfast! The effort to eat and appear unconcerned,
to chat and make no mistake,--May I never be called upon to go through
such another! But at last it was over, and I was left free to await
in my own room the time for the dreaded though much-to-be-desired
interview. Slowly the minutes passed; eight o'clock struck, when, just
as the last vibration ceased, there came a loud knock at the backdoor,
and a little boy burst into the kitchen, crying at the top of his voice:
"Papa's got a fit! Oh, Mrs. Belden! papa's got a fit; do come!"

Rising, as was natural, I hastened towards the kitchen, meeting Mrs.
Belden's anxious face in the doorway.

"A poor wood-chopper down the street has fallen in a fit," she said.
"Will you please watch over the house while I see what I can do for him?
I won't be absent any longer than I can help."

And almost without waiting for my reply, she caught up a shawl, threw
it over her head, and followed the urchin, who was in a state of great
excitement, out into the street.

Instantly the silence of death seemed to fill the house, and a dread the
greatest I had ever experienced settled upon me. To leave the kitchen,
go up those stairs, and confront that girl seemed for the moment beyond
my power; but, once on the stair, I found myself relieved from the
especial dread which had overwhelmed me, and possessed, instead, of a
sort of combative curiosity that led me to throw open the door which
I saw at the top with a certain fierceness new to my nature, and not
altogether suitable, perhaps, to the occasion.

I found myself in a large bedroom, evidently the one occupied by Mrs.
Belden the night before. Barely stopping to note certain evidences of
her having passed a restless night, I passed on to the door leading into
the room marked with a cross in the plan drawn for me by Q. It was a
rough affair, made of pine boards rudely painted. Pausing before it, I
listened. All was still. Raising the latch, I endeavored to enter. The
door was locked. Pausing again, I bent my ear to the keyhole. Not a
sound came from within; the grave itself could not have been stiller.
Awe-struck and irresolute, I looked about me and questioned what I had
best do. Suddenly I remembered that, in the plan Q had given me, I had
seen intimation of another door leading into this same room from the one
on the opposite side of the hall. Going hastily around to it, I tried
it with my hand. But it was as fast as the other. Convinced at last that
nothing was left me but force, I spoke for the first time, and, calling
the girl by name, commanded her to open the door. Receiving no response,
I said aloud with an accent of severity:

"Hannah Chester, you are discovered; if you do not open the door, we
shall be obliged to break it down; save us the trouble, then, and open
immediately."

Still no reply.

Going back a step, I threw my whole weight against the door. It creaked
ominously, but still resisted.

Stopping only long enough to be sure no movement had taken place within,
I pressed against it once more, this time with all my strength, when it
flew from its hinges, and I fell forward into a room so stifling, chill,
and dark that I paused for a moment to collect my scattered senses
before venturing to look around me. It was well I did so. In another
moment, the pallor and fixity of the pretty Irish face staring upon me
from amidst the tumbled clothes of a bed, drawn up against the wall at
my side, struck me with so deathlike a chill that, had it not been for
that one instant of preparation, I should have been seriously dismayed.
As it was, I could not prevent a feeling of sickly apprehension from
seizing me as I turned towards the silent figure stretched so near, and
observed with what marble-like repose it lay beneath the patchwork quilt
drawn across it, asking myself if sleep could be indeed so like death
in its appearance. For that it was a sleeping woman I beheld, I did not
seriously doubt. There were too many evidences of careless life in the
room for any other inference. The clothes, left just as she had stepped
from them in a circle on the floor; the liberal plate of food placed
in waiting for her on the chair by the door, --food amongst which I
recognized, even in this casual glance, the same dish which we had had
for breakfast --all and everything in the room spoke of robust life and
reckless belief in the morrow.

And yet so white was the brow turned up to the bare beams of the
unfinished wall above her, so glassy the look of the half-opened eyes,
so motionless the arm lying half under, half over, the edge of the
coverlid that it was impossible not to shrink from contact with a
creature so sunk in unconsciousness. But contact seemed to be necessary;
any cry which I could raise at that moment would be ineffectual enough
to pierce those dull ears. Nerving myself, therefore, I stooped and
lifted the hand which lay with its telltale scar mockingly uppermost,
intending to speak, call, do something, anything, to arouse her. But at
the first touch of her hand on mine an unspeakable horror thrilled me.
It was not only icy cold, but stiff. Dropping it in my agitation, I
started back and again surveyed the face. Great God! when did life ever
look like that? What sleep ever wore such pallid hues, such accusing
fixedness? Bending once more I listened at the lips. Not a breath, nor a
stir. Shocked to the core of my being, I made one final effort. Tearing
down the clothes, I laid my hand upon her heart. It was pulseless as
stone.



XXX. BURNED PAPER


    "I could have better spared a better man."
        --Henry IV.

I DO not think I called immediately for help. The awful shock of this
discovery, coming as it did at the very moment life and hope were
strongest within me; the sudden downfall which it brought of all the
plans based upon this woman's expected testimony; and, worst of all, the
dread coincidence between this sudden death and the exigency in which
the guilty party, whoever it was, was supposed to be at that hour were
much too appalling for instant action. I could only stand and stare at
the quiet face before me, smiling in its peaceful rest as if death
were pleasanter than we think, and marvel over the providence which
had brought us renewed fear instead of relief, complication instead of
enlightenment, disappointment instead of realization. For eloquent as is
death, even on the faces of those unknown and unloved by us, the causes
and consequences of this one were much too important to allow the mind
to dwell upon the pathos of the scene itself. Hannah, the girl, was lost
in Hannah the witness.

But gradually, as I gazed, the look of expectation which I perceived
hovering about the wistful mouth and half-open lids attracted me, and I
bent above her with a more personal interest, asking myself if she were
quite dead, and whether or not immediate medical assistance would be of
any avail. But the more closely I looked, the more certain I became
that she had been dead for some hours; and the dismay occasioned by this
thought, taken with the regrets which I must ever feel, that I had not
adopted the bold course the evening before, and, by forcing my way to
the hiding-place of this poor creature, interrupted, if not prevented
the consummation of her fate, startled me into a realization of my
present situation; and, leaving her side, I went into the next room,
threw up the window, and fastened to the blind the red handkerchief
which I had taken the precaution to bring with me.

Instantly a young man, whom I was fain to believe Q, though he bore
not the least resemblance, either in dress or facial expression to
any renderings of that youth which I had yet seen, emerged from the
tinsmith's house, and approached the one I was in.

Observing him cast a hurried glance in my direction, I crossed the
floor, and stood awaiting him at the head of the stairs.

"Well?" he whispered, upon entering the house and meeting my glance from
below; "have you seen her?"

"Yes," I returned bitterly, "I have seen her!"

He hurriedly mounted to my side. "And she has confessed?"

"No; I have had no talk with her." Then, as I perceived him growing
alarmed at my voice and manner, I drew him into Mrs. Belden's room and
hastily inquired: "What did you mean this morning when you informed me
you had seen this girl? that she was in a certain room where I might
find her?"

"What I said."

"You have, then, been to her room?"

"No; I have only been on the outside of it. Seeing a light, I crawled up
on to the ledge of the slanting roof last night while both you and Mrs.
Belden were out, and, looking through the window, saw her moving round
the room." He must have observed my countenance change, for he stopped.
"What is to pay?" he cried.

I could restrain myself no longer. "Come," I said, "and see for
yourself!" And, leading him to the little room I had just left, I
pointed to the silent form lying within. "You told me I should
find Hannah here; but you did not tell me I should find her in this
condition."

"Great heaven!" he cried with a start: "not dead?"

"Yes," I said, "dead."

It seemed as if he could not realize it. "But it is impossible!" he
returned. "She is in a heavy sleep, has taken a narcotic----"

"It is not sleep," I said, "or if it is, she will never wake. Look!"
And, taking the hand once more in mine, I let it fall in its stone
weight upon the bed.

The sight seemed to convince him. Calming down, he stood gazing at her
with a very strange expression upon his face. Suddenly he moved and
began quietly turning over the clothes that were lying on the floor.

"What are you doing?" I asked. "What are you looking for?"

"I am looking for the bit of paper from which I saw her take what I
supposed to be a dose of medicine last night. Oh, here it is!" he cried,
lifting a morsel of paper that, lying on the floor under the edge of the
bed, had hitherto escaped his notice.

"Let me see!" I anxiously exclaimed.

He handed me the paper, on the inner surface of which I could dimly
discern the traces of an impalpable white powder.

"This is important," I declared, carefully folding the paper together.
"If there is enough of this powder remaining to show that the contents
of this paper were poisonous, the manner and means of the girl's death
are accounted for, and a case of deliberate suicide made evident."

"I am not so sure of that," he retorted. "If I am any judge of
countenances, and I rather flatter myself I am, this girl had no more
idea she was taking poison than I had. She looked not only bright but
gay; and when she tipped up the paper, a smile of almost silly triumph
crossed her face. If Mrs. Belden gave her that dose to take, telling her
it was medicine----"

"That is something which yet remains to be learned; also whether the
dose, as you call it, was poisonous or not. It may be she died of heart
disease."

He simply shrugged his shoulders, and pointed first at the plate of
breakfast left on the chair, and secondly at the broken-down door.

"Yes," I said, answering his look, "Mrs. Belden has been in here this
morning, and Mrs. Belden locked the door when she went out; but that
proves nothing beyond her belief in the girl's hearty condition."

"A belief which that white face on its tumbled pillow did not seem to
shake?"

"Perhaps in her haste she may not have looked at the girl, but have set
the dishes down without more than a casual glance in her direction?"

"I don't want to suspect anything wrong, but it is such a coincidence!"

This was touching me on a sore point, and I stepped back. "Well,"
said I, "there is no use in our standing here busying ourselves with
conjectures. There is too much to be done. Come!" and I moved hurriedly
towards the door.

"What are you going to do?" he asked. "Have you forgotten this is but
an episode in the one great mystery we are sent here to unravel? If this
girl has come to her death by some foul play, it is our business to find
it out."

"That must be left for the coroner. It has now passed out of our hands."

"I know; but we can at least take full note of the room and everything
in it before throwing the affair into the hands of strangers. Mr. Gryce
will expect that much of us, I am sure."

"I have looked at the room. The whole is photographed on my mind. I am
only afraid I can never forget it."

"And the body? Have you noticed its position? the lay of the bed-clothes
around it? the lack there is of all signs of struggle or fear? the
repose of the countenance? the easy fall of the hands?"

"Yes, yes; don't make me look at it any more."

"Then the clothes hanging on the wall?"--rapidly pointing out each
object as he spoke. "Do you see? a calico dress, a shawl,--not the
one in which she was believed to have run away, but an old black
one, probably belonging to Mrs. Belden. Then this chest,"--opening
it,--"containing a few underclothes marked,--let us see, ah, with the
name of the lady of the house, but smaller than any she ever wore;
made for Hannah, you observe, and marked with her own name to prevent
suspicion. And then these other clothes lying on the floor, all new,
all marked in the same way. Then this--Halloo! look here!" he suddenly
cried.

Going over to where he stood I stooped down, when a wash-bowl half full
of burned paper met my eye.

"I saw her bending over something in this corner, and could not think
what it was. Can it be she is a suicide after all? She has evidently
destroyed something here which she didn't wish any one to see."

"I do not know," I said. "I could almost hope so."

"Not a scrap, not a morsel left to show what it was; how unfortunate!"

"Mrs. Belden must solve this riddle," I cried.

"Mrs. Belden must solve the whole riddle," he replied; "the secret
of the Leavenworth murder hangs upon it." Then, with a lingering
look towards the mass of burned paper, "Who knows but what that was a
confession?"

The conjecture seemed only too probable.

"Whatever it was," said I, "it is now ashes, and we have got to accept
the fact and make the best of it."

"Yes," said he with a deep sigh; "that's so; but Mr. Gryce will never
forgive me for it, never. He will say I ought to have known it was a
suspicious circumstance for her to take a dose of medicine at the very
moment detection stood at her back."

"But she did not know that; she did not see you."

"We don't know what she saw, nor what Mrs. Belden saw. Women are a
mystery; and though I flatter myself that ordinarily I am a match for
the keenest bit of female flesh that ever walked, I must say that in
this case I feel myself thoroughly and shamefully worsted."

"Well, well," I said, "the end has not come yet; who knows what a talk
with Mrs. Belden will bring out? And, by the way, she will be coming
back soon, and I must be ready to meet her. Everything depends upon
finding out, if I can, whether she is aware of this tragedy or not. It
is just possible she knows nothing about it."

And, hurrying him from the room, I pulled the door to behind me, and led
the way down-stairs.

"Now," said I, "there is one thing you must attend to at once. A
telegram must be sent Mr. Gryce acquainting him with this unlooked-for
occurrence."

"All right, sir," and Q started for the door.

"Wait one moment," said I. "I may not have another opportunity to
mention it. Mrs. Belden received two letters from the postmaster
yesterday; one in a large and one in a small envelope; if you could find
out where they were postmarked----"

Q put his hand in his pocket. "I think I will not have to go far to
find out where one of them came from. Good George, I have lost it!" And
before I knew it, he had returned up-stairs.

That moment I heard the gate click.



XXXI. "THEREBY HANGS A TALE."


    --Taming of the Shrew.

"IT was all a hoax; nobody was ill; I have been imposed upon, meanly
imposed upon!" And Mrs. Belden, flushed and panting, entered the room
where I was, and proceeded to take off her bonnet; but whilst doing so
paused, and suddenly exclaimed: "What is the matter? How you look at me!
Has anything happened?"

"Something very serious has occurred," I replied; "you have been gone
but a little while, but in that time a discovery has been made--" I
purposely paused here that the suspense might elicit from her some
betrayal; but, though she turned pale, she manifested less emotion than
I expected, and I went on--"which is likely to produce very important
consequences."

To my surprise she burst violently into tears. "I knew it, I knew it!"
she murmured. "I always said it would be impossible to keep it secret
if I let anybody into the house; she is so restless. But I forget," she
suddenly said, with a frightened look; "you haven't told me what the
discovery was. Perhaps it isn't what I thought; perhaps----"

I did not hesitate to interrupt her. "Mrs. Belden," I said, "I shall not
try to mitigate the blow. A woman who, in the face of the most urgent
call from law and justice, can receive into her house and harbor there a
witness of such importance as Hannah, cannot stand in need of any great
preparation for hearing that her efforts, have been too successful, that
she has accomplished her design of suppressing valuable testimony, that
law and justice are outraged, and that the innocent woman whom this
girl's evidence might have saved stands for ever compromised in the eyes
of the world, if not in those of the officers of the law."

Her eyes, which had never left me during this address, flashed wide with
dismay.

"What do you mean?" she cried. "I have intended no wrong; I have only
tried to save people. I--I--But who are you? What have you got to do
with all this? What is it to you what I do or don't do? You said you
were a lawyer. Can it be you are come from Mary Leavenworth to see how I
am fulfilling her commands, and----"

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "it is of small importance now as to who I am, or
for what purpose I am here. But that my words may have the more effect,
I will say, that whereas I have not deceived you, either as to my name
or position, it is true that I am the friend of the Misses Leavenworth,
and that anything which is likely to affect them, is of interest to
me. When, therefore, I say that Eleanore Leavenworth is irretrievably
injured by this girl's death----"

"Death? What do you mean? Death!"

The burst was too natural, the tone too horror-stricken for me to doubt
for another moment as to this woman's ignorance of the true state of
affairs.

"Yes," I repeated, "the girl you have been hiding so long and so well is
now beyond your control. Only her dead body remains, Mrs. Belden."

I shall never lose from my ears the shriek which she uttered, nor the
wild, "I don't believe it! I don't believe it!" with which she dashed
from the room and rushed up-stairs.

Nor that after-scene when, in the presence of the dead, she stood
wringing her hands and protesting, amid sobs of the sincerest grief and
terror, that she knew nothing of it; that she had left the girl in the
best of spirits the night before; that it was true she had locked her
in, but this she always did when any one was in the house; and that if
she died of any sudden attack, it must have been quietly, for she had
heard no stir all night, though she had listened more than once, being
naturally anxious lest the girl should make some disturbance that would
arouse me.

"But you were in here this morning?" said I.

"Yes; but I didn't notice. I was in a hurry, and thought she was asleep;
so I set the things down where she could get them and came right away,
locking the door as usual."

"It is strange she should have died this night of all others. Was she
ill yesterday?"

"No, sir; she was even brighter than common; more lively. I never
thought of her being sick then or ever. If I had----"

"You never thought of her being sick?" a voice here interrupted. "Why,
then, did you take such pains to give her a dose of medicine last
night?" And Q entered from the room beyond.

"I didn't!" she protested, evidently under the supposition it was I who
had spoken. "Did I, Hannah, did I, poor girl?" stroking the hand that
lay in hers with what appeared to be genuine sorrow and regret.

"How came she by it, then? Where she did she get it if you didn't give
it to her?"

This time she seemed to be aware that some one besides myself was
talking to her, for, hurriedly rising, she looked at the man with a
wondering stare, before replying.

"I don't know who you are, sir; but I can tell you this, the girl had no
medicine,--took no dose; she wasn't sick last night that I know of."

"Yet I saw her swallow a powder."

"Saw her!--the world is crazy, or I am--saw her swallow a powder! How
could you see her do that or anything else? Hasn't she been shut up in
this room for twenty-four hours?"

"Yes; but with a window like that in the roof, it isn't so very
difficult to see into the room, madam."

"Oh," she cried, shrinking, "I have a spy in the house, have I? But I
deserve it; I kept her imprisoned in four close walls, and never came
to look at her once all night. I don't complain; but what was it you say
you saw her take? medicine? poison?"

"I didn't say poison."

"But you meant it. You think she has poisoned herself, and that I had a
hand in it!"

"No," I hastened to remark, "he does not think you had a hand in it. He
says he saw the girl herself swallow something which he believes to have
been the occasion of her death, and only asks you now where she obtained
it."

"How can I tell? I never gave her anything; didn't know she had
anything."

Somehow, I believed her, and so felt unwilling to prolong the present
interview, especially as each moment delayed the action which I felt it
incumbent upon us to take. So, motioning Q to depart upon his errand, I
took Mrs. Belden by the hand and endeavored to lead her from the
room. But she resisted, sitting down by the side of the bed with the
expression, "I will not leave her again; do not ask it; here is my
place, and here I will stay," while Q, obdurate for the first time,
stood staring severely upon us both, and would not move, though I urged
him again to make haste, saying that the morning was slipping away, and
that the telegram to Mr. Gryce ought to be sent.

"Till that woman leaves the room, I don't; and unless you promise to
take my place in watching her, I don't quit the house."

Astonished, I left her side and crossed to him.

"You carry your suspicions too far," I whispered, "and I think you are
too rude. We have seen nothing, I am sure, to warrant us in any such
action; besides, she can do no harm here; though, as for watching her, I
promise to do that much if it will relieve your mind."

"I don't want her watched here; take her below. I cannot leave while she
remains."

"Are you not assuming a trifle the master?"

"Perhaps; I don't know. If I am, it is because I have something in my
possession which excuses my conduct."

"What is that? the letter?"

"Yes."

Agitated now in my turn, I held out my hand. "Let me see," I said.

"Not while that woman remains in the room."

Seeing him implacable, I returned to Mrs. Belden.

"I must entreat you to come with me," said I. "This is not a common
death; we shall be obliged to have the coroner here and others. You had
better leave the room and go below."

"I don't mind the coroner; he is a neighbor of mine; his coming won't
prevent my watching over the poor girl until he arrives."

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "your position as the only one conscious of the
presence of this girl in your house makes it wiser for you not to invite
suspicion by lingering any longer than is necessary in the room where
her dead body lies."

"As if my neglect of her now were the best surety of my good intentions
towards her in time past!"

"It will not be neglect for you to go below with me at my earnest
request. You can do no good here by staying; will, in fact, be doing
harm. So listen to me or I shall be obliged to leave you in charge of
this man and go myself to inform the authorities."

This last argument seemed to affect her, for with one look of shuddering
abhorrence at Q she rose, saying, "You have me in your power," and then,
without another word, threw her handkerchief over the girl's face and
left the room. In two minutes more I had the letter of which Q had
spoken in my hands.

"It is the only one I could find, sir. It was in the pocket of the dress
Mrs. Belden had on last night. The other must be lying around somewhere,
but I haven't had time to find it. This will do, though, I think. You
will not ask for the other."

Scarcely noticing at the time with what deep significance he spoke, I
opened the letter. It was the smaller of the two I had seen her draw
under her shawl the day before at the post-office, and read as follows:


    "DEAR, DEAR FRIEND:

    "I am in awful trouble. You who love me must know it. I cannot
    explain, I can only make one prayer. Destroy what you have,
    to-day, instantly, without question or hesitation. The consent
    of any one else has nothing to do with it. You must obey. I am
    lost if you refuse. Do then what I ask, and save

    "ONE WHO LOVES YOU."

It was addressed to Mrs. Belden; there was no signature or date,
only the postmark New York; but I knew the handwriting. It was Mary
Leavenworth's.

"A damning letter!" came in the dry tones which Q seemed to think fit to
adopt on this occasion. "And a damning bit of evidence against the one
who wrote it, and the woman who received it!"

"A terrible piece of evidence, indeed," said I, "if I did not happen to
know that this letter refers to the destruction of something radically
different from what you suspect. It alludes to some papers in Mrs.
Belden's charge; nothing else."

"Are you sure, sir?"

"Quite; but we will talk of this hereafter. It is time you sent your
telegram, and went for the coroner."

"Very well, sir." And with this we parted; he to perform his role and I
mine.

I found Mrs. Belden walking the floor below, bewailing her situation,
and uttering wild sentences as to what the neighbors would say of her;
what the minister would think; what Clara, whoever that was, would do,
and how she wished she had died before ever she had meddled with the
affair.

Succeeding in calming her after a while, I induced her to sit down and
listen to what I had to say. "You will only injure yourself by this
display of feeling," I remarked, "besides unfitting yourself for what
you will presently be called upon to go through." And, laying myself out
to comfort the unhappy woman, I first explained the necessities of the
case, and next inquired if she had no friend upon whom she could call in
this emergency.

To my great surprise she replied no; that while she had kind neighbors
and good friends, there was no one upon whom she could call in a case
like this, either for assistance or sympathy, and that, unless I would
take pity on her, she would have to meet it alone--"As I have met
everything," she said, "from Mr. Belden's death to the loss of most of
my little savings in a town fire last year."

I was touched by this,--that she who, in spite of her weakness and
inconsistencies of character, possessed at least the one virtue of
sympathy with her kind, should feel any lack of friends. Unhesitatingly,
I offered to do what I could for her, providing she would treat me with
the perfect frankness which the case demanded. To my great relief, she
expressed not only her willingness, but her strong desire, to tell all
she knew. "I have had enough secrecy for my whole life," she said.
And indeed I do believe she was so thoroughly frightened, that if a
police-officer had come into the house and asked her to reveal secrets
compromising the good name of her own son, she would have done so
without cavil or question. "I feel as if I wanted to take my stand out
on the common, and, in the face of the whole world, declare what I have
done for Mary Leavenworth. But first," she whispered, "tell me, for
God's sake, how those girls are situated. I have not dared to ask or
write. The papers say a good deal about Eleanore, but nothing about
Mary; and yet Mary writes of her own peril only, and of the danger she
would be in if certain facts were known. What is the truth? I don't want
to injure them, only to take care of myself."

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "Eleanore Leavenworth has got into her
present difficulty by not telling all that was required of her. Mary
Leavenworth--but I cannot speak of her till I know what you have to
divulge. Her position, as well as that of her cousin, is too anomalous
for either you or me to discuss. What we want to learn from you is, how
you became connected with this affair, and what it was that Hannah knew
which caused her to leave New York and take refuge here."

But Mrs. Belden, clasping and unclasping her hands, met my gaze with one
full of the most apprehensive doubt. "You will never believe me," she
cried; "but I don't know what Hannah knew. I am in utter ignorance of
what she saw or heard on that fatal night; she never told, and I never
asked. She merely said that Miss Leavenworth wished me to secrete her
for a short time; and I, because I loved Mary Leavenworth and admired
her beyond any one I ever saw, weakly consented, and----"

"Do you mean to say," I interrupted, "that after you knew of the murder,
you, at the mere expression of Miss Leavenworth's wishes, continued to
keep this girl concealed without asking her any questions or demanding
any explanations?"

"Yes, sir; you will never believe me, but it is so. I thought that,
since Mary had sent her here, she must have her reasons; and--and--I
cannot explain it now; it all looks so differently; but I did do as I
have said."

"But that was very strange conduct. You must have had strong reason for
obeying Mary Leavenworth so blindly."

"Oh, sir," she gasped, "I thought I understood it all; that Mary, the
bright young creature, who had stooped from her lofty position to make
use of me and to love me, was in some way linked to the criminal, and
that it would be better for me to remain in ignorance, do as I was
bid, and trust all would come right. I did not reason about it; I only
followed my impulse. I couldn't do otherwise; it isn't my nature. When I
am requested to do anything for a person I love, I cannot refuse."

"And you love Mary Leavenworth; a woman whom you yourself seem to
consider capable of a great crime?"

"Oh, I didn't say that; I don't know as I thought that. She might be in
some way connected with it, without being the actual perpetrator. She
could never be that; she is too dainty."

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "what do you know of Mary Leavenworth which makes
even that supposition possible?"

The white face of the woman before me flushed. "I scarcely know what to
reply," she cried. "It is a long story, and----"

"Never mind the long story," I interrupted. "Let me hear the one vital
reason."

"Well," said she, "it is this; that Mary was in an emergency from which
nothing but her uncle's death could release her."

"Ah, how's that?"

But here we were interrupted by the sound of steps on the porch, and,
looking out, I saw Q entering the house alone. Leaving Mrs. Belden where
she was, I stepped into the hall.

"Well," said I, "what is the matter? Haven't you found the coroner?
Isn't he at home?"

"No, gone away; off in a buggy to look after a man that was found some
ten miles from here, lying in a ditch beside a yoke of oxen." Then, as
he saw my look of relief, for I was glad of this temporary delay, said,
with an expressive wink: "It would take a fellow a long time to go to
him--if he wasn't in a hurry--hours, I think."

"Indeed!" I returned, amused at his manner. "Rough road?"

"Very; no horse I could get could travel it faster than a walk."

"Well," said I, "so much the better for us. Mrs. Belden has a long story
to tell, and----"

"Doesn't wish to be interrupted. I understand."

I nodded and he turned towards the door.

"Have you telegraphed Mr. Gryce?" I asked.

"Yes, sir."

"Do you think he will come?"

"Yes, sir; if he has to hobble on two sticks."

"At what time do you look for him?"

"_You_ will look for him as early as three o'clock. I shall be among the
mountains, ruefully eying my broken-down team." And leisurely donning
his hat he strolled away down the street like one who has the whole day
on his hands and does not know what to do with it.

An opportunity being thus given for Mrs. Belden's story, she at once
composed herself to the task, with the following result.



XXXII. MRS. BELDEN'S NARRATIVE


    "Cursed, destructive Avarice,
     Thou everlasting foe to Love and Honor."
        --Trap's Abram.

    "Mischief never thrives
     Without the help of Woman."
        --The Same.

IT will be a year next July since I first saw Mary Leavenworth. I
was living at that time a most monotonous existence. Loving what was
beautiful, hating what was sordid, drawn by nature towards all that
was romantic and uncommon, but doomed by my straitened position and the
loneliness of my widowhood to spend my days in the weary round of plain
sewing, I had begun to think that the shadow of a humdrum old age
was settling down upon me, when one morning, in the full tide of my
dissatisfaction, Mary Leavenworth stepped across the threshold of my
door and, with one smile, changed the whole tenor of my life.

This may seem exaggeration to you, especially when I say that her errand
was simply one of business, she having heard I was handy with my needle;
but if you could have seen her as she appeared that day, marked the look
with which she approached me, and the smile with which she left, you
would pardon the folly of a romantic old woman, who beheld a fairy queen
in this lovely young lady. The fact is, I was dazzled by her beauty and
her charms. And when, a few days after, she came again, and crouching
down on the stool at my feet, said she was so tired of the gossip and
tumult down at the hotel, that it was a relief to run away and hide with
some one who would let her act like the child she was, I experienced
for the moment, I believe, the truest happiness of my life. Meeting her
advances with all the warmth her manner invited, I found her ere long
listening eagerly while I told her, almost without my own volition, the
story of my past life, in the form of an amusing allegory.

The next day saw her in the same place; and the next; always with the
eager, laughing eyes, and the fluttering, uneasy hands, that grasped
everything they touched, and broke everything they grasped.

But the fourth day she was not there, nor the fifth, nor the sixth, and
I was beginning to feel the old shadow settling back upon me, when one
night, just as the dusk of twilight was merging into evening gloom, she
came stealing in at the front door, and, creeping up to my side, put her
hands over my eyes with such a low, ringing laugh, that I started.

"You don't know what to make of me!" she cried, throwing aside her
cloak, and revealing herself in the full splendor of evening attire. "I
don't know what to make of myself. Though it seems folly, I felt that
I must run away and tell some one that a certain pair of eyes have been
looking into mine, and that for the first time in my life I feel
myself a woman as well as a queen." And with a glance in which coyness
struggled with pride, she gathered up her cloak around her, and
laughingly cried:

"Have you had a visit from a flying sprite? Has one little ray of
moonlight found its way into your prison for a wee moment, with Mary's
laugh and Mary's snowy silk and flashing diamonds? Say!" and she patted
my cheek, and smiled so bewilderingly, that even now, with all the
dull horror of these after-events crowding upon me, I cannot but feel
something like tears spring to my eyes at the thought of it.

"And so the Prince has come for you?" I whispered, alluding to a story I
had told her the last time she had visited me; a story in which a girl,
who had waited all her life in rags and degradation for the lordly
knight who was to raise her from a hovel to a throne, died just as her
one lover, an honest peasant-lad whom she had discarded in her pride,
arrived at her door with the fortune he had spent all his days in
amassing for her sake.

But at this she flushed, and drew back towards the door. "I don't know;
I am afraid not. I--I don't think anything about that. Princes are not
so easily won," she murmured.

"What! are you going?" I said, "and alone? Let me accompany you."

But she only shook her fairy head, and replied: "No, no; that would be
spoiling the romance, indeed. I have come upon you like a sprite, and
like a sprite I will go." And, flashing like the moonbeam she was, she
glided out into the night, and floated away down the street.

When she next came, I observed a feverish excitement in her manner,
which assured me, even plainer than the coy sweetness displayed in
our last interview, that her heart had been touched by her lover's
attentions. Indeed, she hinted as much before she left, saying in a
melancholy tone, when I had ended my story in the usual happy way, with
kisses and marriage, "I shall never marry!" finishing the exclamation
with a long-drawn sigh, that somehow emboldened me to say, perhaps
because I knew she had no mother:

"And why? What reason can there be for such rosy lips saying their
possessor will never marry?"

She gave me one quick look, and then dropped her eyes. I feared I had
offended her, and was feeling very humble, when she suddenly replied, in
an even but low tone, "I said I should never marry, because the one man
who pleases me can never be my husband."

All the hidden romance in my nature started at once into life. "Why not?
What do you mean? Tell me."

"There is nothing to tell," said she; "only I have been so weak as
to"--she would not say, fall in love, she was a proud woman--"admire a
man whom my uncle will never allow me to marry."

And she rose as if to go; but I drew her back. "Whom your uncle will not
allow you to marry!" I repeated. "Why? because he is poor?"

"No; uncle loves money, but not to such an extent as that. Besides, Mr.
Clavering is not poor. He is the owner of a beautiful place in his own
country----"

"Own country?" I interrupted. "Is he not an American?"

"No," she returned; "he is an Englishman."

I did not see why she need say that in just the way she did, but,
supposing she was aggravated by some secret memory, went on to inquire:
"Then what difficulty can there be? Isn't he--" I was going to say
steady, but refrained.

"He is an Englishman," she emphasized in the same bitter tone as
before. "In saying that, I say it all. Uncle will never let me marry an
Englishman."

I looked at her in amazement. Such a puerile reason as this had never
entered my mind.

"He has an absolute mania on the subject," resumed she. "I might as well
ask him to allow me to drown myself as to marry an Englishman."

A woman of truer judgment than myself would have said: "Then, if that is
so, why not discard from your breast all thought of him? Why dance with
him, and talk to him, and let your admiration develop into love?" But
I was all romance then, and, angry at a prejudice I could neither
understand nor appreciate, I said:

"But that is mere tyranny! Why should he hate the English so? And why,
if he does, should you feel yourself obliged to gratify him in a whim so
unreasonable?"

"Why? Shall I tell you, auntie?" she said, flushing and looking away.

"Yes," I returned; "tell me everything."

"Well, then, if you want to know the worst of me, as you already know
the best, I hate to incur my uncle's displeasure, because--because--I
have always been brought up to regard myself as his heiress, and I
know that if I were to marry contrary to his wishes, he would instantly
change his mind, and leave me penniless."

"But," I cried, my romance a little dampened by this admission, "you
tell me Mr. Clavering has enough to live upon, so you would not want;
and if you love--"

Her violet eyes fairly flashed in her amazement.

"You don't understand," she said; "Mr. Clavering is not poor; but uncle
is rich. I shall be a queen--" There she paused, trembling, and falling
on my breast. "Oh, it sounds mercenary, I know, but it is the fault of
my bringing up. I have been taught to worship money. I would be utterly
lost without it. And yet"--her whole face softening with the light of
another emotion, "I cannot say to Henry Clavering, 'Go! my prospects are
dearer to me than you!' I cannot, oh, I cannot!"

"You love him, then?" said I, determined to get at the truth of the
matter if possible.

She rose restlessly. "Isn't that a proof of love? If you knew me, you
would say it was." And, turning, she took her stand before a picture
that hung on the wall of my sitting-room.

"That looks like me," she said.

It was one of a pair of good photographs I possessed.

"Yes," I remarked, "that is why I prize it."

She did not seem to hear me; she was absorbed in gazing at the exquisite
face before her. "That is a winning face," I heard her say. "Sweeter
than mine. I wonder if she would ever hesitate between love and money. I
do not believe she would," her own countenance growing gloomy and sad
as she said so; "she would think only of the happiness she would confer;
she is not hard like me. Eleanore herself would love this girl."

I think she had forgotten my presence, for at the mention of her
cousin's name she turned quickly round with a half suspicious look,
saying lightly:

"My dear old Mamma Hubbard looks horrified. She did not know she had
such a very unromantic little wretch for a listener, when she was
telling all those wonderful stories of Love slaying dragons, and living
in caves, and walking over burning ploughshares as if they were tufts of
spring grass?"

"No," I said, taking her with an irresistible impulse of admiring
affection into my arms; "but if I had, it would have made no difference.
I should still have talked about love, and of all it can do to make this
weary workaday world sweet and delightful."

"Would you? Then you do not think me such a wretch?"

What could I say? I thought her the winsomest being in the world, and
frankly told her so. Instantly she brightened into her very gayest self.
Not that I thought then, much less do I think now, she partially
cared for my good opinion; but her nature demanded admiration, and
unconsciously blossomed under it, as a flower under the sunshine.

"And you will still let me come and tell you how bad I am,--that is, if
I go on being bad, as I doubtless shall to the end of the chapter? You
will not turn me off?"

"I will never turn you off."

"Not if I should do a dreadful thing? Not if I should run away with my
lover some fine night, and leave uncle to discover how his affectionate
partiality had been requited?"

It was lightly said, and lightly meant, for she did not even wait for my
reply. But its seed sank deep into our two hearts for all that. And for
the next few days I spent my time in planning how I should manage, if
it should ever fall to my lot to conduct to a successful issue so
enthralling a piece of business as an elopement. You may imagine, then,
how delighted I was, when one evening Hannah, this unhappy girl who
is now lying dead under my roof, and who was occupying the position of
lady's maid to Miss Mary Leavenworth at that time, came to my door with
a note from her mistress, running thus:


    "Have the loveliest story of the season ready for me tomorrow; and
    let the prince be as handsome as--as some one you have heard of,
    and the princess as foolish as your little yielding pet,

    "MARY."

Which short note could only mean that she was engaged. But the next day
did not bring me my Mary, nor the next, nor the next; and beyond hearing
that Mr. Leavenworth had returned from his trip I received neither word
nor token. Two more days dragged by, when, just as twilight set in, she
came. It had been a week since I had seen her, but it might have been
a year from the change I observed in her countenance and expression. I
could scarcely greet her with any show of pleasure, she was so unlike
her former self.

"You are disappointed, are you not?" said she, looking at me. "You
expected revelations, whispered hopes, and all manner of sweet
confidences; and you see, instead, a cold, bitter woman, who for
the first time in your presence feels inclined to be reserved and
uncommunicative."

"That is because you have had more to trouble than encourage you in your
love," I returned, though not without a certain shrinking, caused more
by her manner than words.

She did not reply to this, but rose and paced the floor, coldly at
first, but afterwards with a certain degree of excitement that proved
to be the prelude to a change in her manner; for, suddenly pausing, she
turned to me and said: "Mr. Clavering has left R----, Mrs. Belden."

"Left!"

"Yes, my uncle commanded me to dismiss him, and I obeyed."

The work dropped from my hands, in my heartfelt disappointment. "Ah!
then he knows of your engagement to Mr. Clavering?"

"Yes; he had not been in the house five minutes before Eleanore told
him."

"Then _she_ knew?"

"Yes," with a half sigh. "She could hardly help it. I was foolish enough
to give her the cue in my first moment of joy and weakness. I did
not think of the consequences; but I might have known. She is so
conscientious."

"I do not call it conscientiousness to tell another's secrets," I
returned.

"That is because you are not Eleanore."

Not having a reply for this, I said, "And so your uncle did not regard
your engagement with favor?"

"Favor! Did I not tell you he would never allow me to marry an
Englishman? He said he would sooner see me buried."

"And you yielded? Made no struggle? Let the hard, cruel man have his
way?"

She was walking off to look again at that picture which had attracted
her attention the time before, but at this word gave me one little
sidelong look that was inexpressibly suggestive.

"I obeyed him when he commanded, if that is what you mean."

"And dismissed Mr. Clavering after having given him your word of honor
to be his wife?"

"Why not, when I found I could not keep my word."

"Then you have decided not to marry him?"

She did not reply at once, but lifted her face mechanically to the
picture.

"My uncle would tell you that I had decided to be governed wholly by
his wishes!" she responded at last with what I felt was self-scornful
bitterness.

Greatly disappointed, I burst into tears. "Oh, Mary!" I cried, "Oh,
Mary!" and instantly blushed, startled that I had called her by her
first name.

But she did not appear to notice.

"Have you any complaint to make?" she asked. "Is it not my manifest
duty to be governed by my uncle's wishes? Has he not brought me up from
childhood? lavished every luxury upon me? made me all I am, even to the
love of riches which he has instilled into my soul with every gift he
has thrown into my lap, every word he has dropped into my ear, since I
was old enough to know what riches meant? Is it for me now to turn my
back upon fostering care so wise, beneficent, and free, just because
a man whom I have known some two weeks chances to offer me in exchange
what he pleases to call his love?"

"But," I feebly essayed, convinced perhaps by the tone of sarcasm in
which this was uttered that she was not far from my way of thinking
after all, "if in two weeks you have learned to love this man more than
everything else, even the riches which make your uncle's favor a thing
of such moment--"

"Well," said she, "what then?"

"Why, then I would say, secure your happiness with the man of your
choice, if you have to marry him in secret, trusting to your influence
over your uncle to win the forgiveness he never can persistently deny."

You should have seen the arch expression which stole across her face
at that. "Would it not be better," she asked, creeping to my arms, and
laying her head on my shoulder, "would it not be better for me to make
sure of that uncle's favor first, before undertaking the hazardous
experiment of running away with a too ardent lover?"

Struck by her manner, I lifted her face and looked at it. It was one
amused smile.

"Oh, my darling," said I, "you have not, then dismissed Mr. Clavering?"

"I have sent him away," she whispered demurely.

"But not without hope?"

She burst into a ringing laugh.

"Oh, you dear old Mamma Hubbard; what a matchmaker you are, to be sure!
You appear as much interested as if you were the lover yourself."

"But tell me," I urged.

In a moment her serious mood returned. "He will wait for me," said she.

The next day I submitted to her the plan I had formed for her
clandestine intercourse with Mr. Clavering. It was for them both to
assume names, she taking mine, as one less liable to provoke conjecture
than a strange name, and he that of LeRoy Robbins. The plan pleased
her, and with the slight modification of a secret sign being used on the
envelope, to distinguish her letters from mine, was at once adopted.

And so it was I took the fatal step that has involved me in all this
trouble. With the gift of my name to this young girl to use as she
would and sign what she would, I seemed to part with what was left me of
judgment and discretion. Henceforth, I was only her scheming, planning,
devoted slave; now copying the letters which she brought me, and
enclosing them to the false name we had agreed upon, and now busying
myself in devising ways to forward to her those which I received from
him, without risk of discovery. Hannah was the medium we employed, as
Mary felt it would not be wise for her to come too often to my house.
To this girl's charge, then, I gave such notes as I could not forward in
any other way, secure in the reticence of her nature, as well as in her
inability to read, that these letters addressed to Mrs. Amy Belden would
arrive at their proper destination without mishap. And I believe they
always did. At all events, no difficulty that I ever heard of arose out
of the use of this girl as a go-between.

But a change was at hand. Mr. Clavering, who had left an invalid mother
in England, was suddenly summoned home. He prepared to go, but, flushed
with love, distracted by doubts, smitten with the fear that, once
withdrawn from the neighborhood of a woman so universally courted as
Mary, he would stand small chance of retaining his position in her
regard, he wrote to her, telling his fears and asking her to marry him
before he went.

"Make me your husband, and I will follow your wishes in all things,"
he wrote. "The certainty that you are mine will make parting possible;
without it, I cannot go; no, not if my mother should die without the
comfort of saying good-bye to her only child."

By some chance she was in my house when I brought this letter from the
post-office, and I shall never forget how she started when she read it.
But, from looking as if she had received an insult, she speedily settled
down into a calm consideration of the subject, writing and delivering
into my charge for copying a few lines in which she promised to accede
to his request, if he would agree to leave the public declaration of the
marriage to her discretion, and consent to bid her farewell at the door
of the church or wherever the ceremony of marriage should take place,
never to come into her presence again till such declaration had been
made. Of course this brought in a couple of days the sure response:
"Anything, so you will be mine."

And Amy Belden's wits and powers of planning were all summoned into
requisition for the second time, to devise how this matter could be
arranged without subjecting the parties to the chance of detection. I
found the thing very difficult. In the first place, it was essential
that the marriage should come off within three days, Mr. Clavering
having, upon the receipt of her letter, secured his passage upon a
steamer that sailed on the following Saturday; and, next, both he and
Miss Leavenworth were too conspicuous in their personal appearance to
make it at all possible for them to be secretly married anywhere within
gossiping distance of this place. And yet it was desirable that the
scene of the ceremony should not be too far away, or the time occupied
in effecting the journey to and from the place would necessitate an
absence from the hotel on the part of Miss Leavenworth long enough to
arouse the suspicions of Eleanore; something which Mary felt it wiser
to avoid. Her uncle, I have forgotten to say, was not here--having gone
away again shortly after the apparent dismissal of Mr. Clavering.
F----, then, was the only town I could think of which combined the two
advantages of distance and accessibility. Although upon the railroad, it
was an insignificant place, and had, what was better yet, a very obscure
man for its clergyman, living, which was best of all, not ten rods from
the depot. If they could meet there? Making inquiries, I found that it
could be done, and, all alive to the romance of the occasion, proceeded
to plan the details.

And now I am coming to what might have caused the overthrow of the
whole scheme: I allude to the detection on the part of Eleanore of the
correspondence between Mary and Mr. Clavering. It happened thus. Hannah,
who, in her frequent visits to my house, had grown very fond of my
society, had come in to sit with me for a while one evening. She had not
been in the house, however, more than ten minutes, before there came a
knock at the front door; and going to it I saw Mary, as I supposed, from
the long cloak she wore, standing before me. Thinking she had come with
a letter for Mr. Clavering, I grasped her arm and drew her into the
hall, saying, "Have you got it? I must post it to-night, or he will not
receive it in time."

There I paused, for, the panting creature I had by the arm turning upon
me, I saw myself confronted by a stranger.

"You have made a mistake," she cried. "I am Eleanore Leavenworth, and I
have come for my girl Hannah. Is she here?"

I could only raise my hand in apprehension, and point to the girl
sitting in the corner of the room before her. Miss Leavenworth
immediately turned back.

"Hannah, I want you," said she, and would have left the house without
another word, but I caught her by the arm.

"Oh, miss--" I began, but she gave me such a look, I dropped her arm.

"I have nothing to say to you!" she cried in a low, thrilling voice. "Do
not detain me." And, with a glance to see if Hannah were following her,
she went out.

For an hour I sat crouched on the stair just where she had left me. Then
I went to bed, but I did not sleep a wink that night. You can imagine,
then, my wonder when, with the first glow of the early morning light,
Mary, looking more beautiful than ever, came running up the steps and
into the room where I was, with the letter for Mr. Clavering trembling
in her hand.

"Oh!" I cried in my joy and relief, "didn't she understand me, then?"

The gay look on Mary's face turned to one of reckless scorn. "If you
mean Eleanore, yes. She is duly initiated, Mamma Hubbard. Knows that I
love Mr. Clavering and write to him. I couldn't keep it secret after the
mistake you made last evening; so I did the next best thing, told her
the truth."

"Not that you were about to be married?"

"Certainly not. I don't believe in unnecessary communications."

"And you did not find her as angry as you expected?"

"I will not say that; she was angry enough. And yet," continued Mary,
with a burst of self-scornful penitence, "I will not call Eleanore's
lofty indignation anger. She was grieved, Mamma Hubbard, grieved." And
with a laugh which I believe was rather the result of her own relief
than of any wish to reflect on her cousin, she threw her head on one
side and eyed me with a look which seemed to say, "Do I plague you so
very much, you dear old Mamma Hubbard?"

She did plague me, and I could not conceal it. "And will she not tell
her uncle?" I gasped.

The naive expression on Mary's face quickly changed. "No," said she.

I felt a heavy hand, hot with fever, lifted from my heart. "And we can
still go on?"

She held out the letter for reply.

The plan agreed upon between us for the carrying out of our intentions
was this. At the time appointed, Mary was to excuse herself to her
cousin upon the plea that she had promised to take me to see a friend
in the next town. She was then to enter a buggy previously ordered, and
drive here, where I was to join her. We were then to proceed immediately
to the minister's house in F----, where we had reason to believe we
should find everything prepared for us. But in this plan, simple as it
was, one thing was forgotten, and that was the character of Eleanore's
love for her cousin. That her suspicions would be aroused we did
not doubt; but that she would actually follow Mary up and demand an
explanation of her conduct, was what neither she, who knew her so well,
nor I, who knew her so little, ever imagined possible. And yet that was
just what occurred. But let me explain. Mary, who had followed out the
programme to the point of leaving a little note of excuse on Eleanore's
dressing-table, had come to my house, and was just taking off her long
cloak to show me her dress, when there came a commanding knock at
the front door. Hastily pulling her cloak about her I ran to open it,
intending, you may be sure, to dismiss my visitor with short ceremony,
when I heard a voice behind me say, "Good heavens, it is Eleanore!" and,
glancing back, saw Mary looking through the window-blind upon the porch
without.

"What shall we do?" I cried, in very natural dismay.

"Do? why, open the door and let her in; I am not afraid of Eleanore."

I immediately did so, and Eleanore Leavenworth, very pale, but with
a resolute countenance, walked into the house and into this room,
confronting Mary in very nearly the same spot where you are now sitting.
"I have come," said she, lifting a face whose expression of mingled
sweetness and power I could not but admire, even in that moment of
apprehension, "to ask you without any excuse for my request, if you will
allow me to accompany you upon your drive this morning?"

Mary, who had drawn herself up to meet some word of accusation or
appeal, turned carelessly away to the glass. "I am very sorry," she
said, "but the buggy holds only two, and I shall be obliged to refuse."

"I will order a carriage."

"But I do not wish your company, Eleanore. We are off on a pleasure
trip, and desire to have our fun by ourselves."

"And you will not allow me to accompany you?"

"I cannot prevent your going in another carriage."

Eleanore's face grew yet more earnest in its expression. "Mary," said
she, "we have been brought up together. I am your sister in affection
if not in blood, and I cannot see you start upon this adventure with no
other companion than this woman. Then tell me, shall I go with you, as a
sister, or on the road behind you as the enforced guardian of your honor
against your will?"

"My honor?"

"You are going to meet Mr. Clavering."

"Well?"

"Twenty miles from home."

"Well?"

"Now is it discreet or honorable in you to do this?"

Mary's haughty lip took an ominous curve. "The same hand that raised you
has raised me," she cried bitterly.

"This is no time to speak of that," returned Eleanore.

Mary's countenance flushed. All the antagonism of her nature was
aroused. She looked absolutely Juno-like in her wrath and reckless
menace. "Eleanore," she cried, "I am going to F---- to marry Mr.
Clavering! _Now_ do you wish to accompany me?"

"I do."

Mary's whole manner changed. Leaping forward, she grasped her cousin's
arm and shook it. "For what reason?" she cried. "What do you intend to
do?"

"To witness the marriage, if it be a true one; to step between you
and shame if any element of falsehood should come in to affect its
legality."

Mary's hand fell from her cousin's arm. "I do not understand you,"
said she. "I thought you never gave countenance to what you considered
wrong."

"Nor do I. Any one who knows me will understand that I do not give my
approval to this marriage just because I attend its ceremonial in the
capacity of an unwilling witness."

"Then why go?"

"Because I value your honor above my own peace. Because I love our
common benefactor, and know that he would never pardon me if I let his
darling be married, however contrary her union might be to his wishes,
without lending the support of my presence to make the transaction at
least a respectable one."

"But in so doing you will be involved in a world of deception--which you
hate."

"Any more so than now?"

"Mr. Clavering does not return with me, Eleanore."

"No, I supposed not."

"I leave him immediately after the ceremony."

Eleanore bowed her head.

"He goes to Europe." A pause.

"And I return home."

"There to wait for what, Mary?"

Mary's face crimsoned, and she turned slowly away.

"What every other girl does under such circumstances, I suppose. The
development of more reasonable feelings in an obdurate parent's heart."

Eleanore sighed, and a short silence ensued, broken by Eleanore's
suddenly falling upon her knees, and clasping her cousin's hand. "Oh,
Mary," she sobbed, her haughtiness all disappearing in a gush of wild
entreaty, "consider what you are doing! Think, before it is too late, of
the consequences which must follow such an act as this. Marriage founded
upon deception can never lead to happiness. Love--but it is not that.
Love would have led you either to have dismissed Mr. Clavering at once,
or to have openly accepted the fate which a union with him would bring.
Only passion stoops to subterfuge like this. And you," she continued,
rising and turning toward me in a sort of forlorn hope very touching
to see, "can you see this young motherless girl, driven by caprice, and
acknowledging no moral restraint, enter upon the dark and crooked path
she is planning for herself, without uttering one word of warning and
appeal? Tell me, mother of children dead and buried, what excuse you
will have for your own part in this day's work, when she, with her
face marred by the sorrows which must follow this deception, comes to
you----"

"The same excuse, probably," Mary's voice broke in, chill and strained,
"which you will have when uncle inquires how you came to allow such an
act of disobedience to be perpetrated in his absence: that she could not
help herself, that Mary would gang her ain gait, and every one around
must accommodate themselves to it."

It was like a draught of icy air suddenly poured into a room heated up
to fever point. Eleanore stiffened immediately, and drawing back, pale
and composed, turned upon her cousin with the remark:

"Then nothing can move you?"

The curling of Mary's lips was her only reply.

Mr. Raymond, I do not wish to weary you with my feelings, but the first
great distrust I ever felt of my wisdom in pushing this matter so far
came with that curl of Mary's lip. More plainly than Eleanore's words it
showed me the temper with which she was entering upon this undertaking;
and, struck with momentary dismay, I advanced to speak when Mary stopped
me.

"There, now, Mamma Hubbard, don't you go and acknowledge that you
are frightened, for I won't hear it. I have promised to marry Henry
Clavering to-day, and I am going to keep my word--if I don't love him,"
she added with bitter emphasis. Then, smiling upon me in a way which
caused me to forget everything save the fact that she was going to her
bridal, she handed me her veil to fasten. As I was doing this, with very
trembling fingers, she said, looking straight at Eleanore:

"You have shown yourself more interested in my fate than I had any
reason to expect. Will you continue to display this concern all the way
to F----, or may I hope for a few moments of peace in which to dream
upon the step which, according to you, is about to hurl upon me such
dreadful consequences?"

"If I go with you to F----," Eleanore returned, "it is as a witness, no
more. My sisterly duty is done."

"Very well, then," Mary said, dimpling with sudden gayety; "I suppose
I shall have to accept the situation. Mamma Hubbard, I am so sorry to
disappoint you, but the buggy _won't_ hold three. If you are good you
shall be the first to congratulate me when I come home to-night." And,
almost before I knew it, the two had taken their seats in the buggy that
was waiting at the door. "Good-by," cried Mary, waving her hand from the
back; "wish me much joy--of my ride."

I tried to do so, but the words wouldn't come. I could only wave my hand
in response, and rush sobbing into the house.

Of that day, and its long hours of alternate remorse and anxiety, I
cannot trust myself to speak. Let me come at once to the time when,
seated alone in my lamp-lighted room, I waited and watched for the token
of their return which Mary had promised me. It came in the shape of Mary
herself, who, wrapped in her long cloak, and with her beautiful face
aglow with blushes, came stealing into the house just as I was beginning
to despair.

A strain of wild music from the hotel porch, where they were having a
dance, entered with her, producing such a weird effect upon my fancy
that I was not at all surprised when, in flinging off her cloak, she
displayed garments of bridal white and a head crowned with snowy roses.

"Oh, Mary!" I cried, bursting into tears; "you are then----"

"Mrs. Henry Clavering, at your service. I'm a bride, Auntie."

"Without a bridal," I murmured, taking her passionately into my embrace.

She was not insensible to my emotion. Nestling close to me, she gave
herself up for one wild moment to a genuine burst of tears, saying
between her sobs all manner of tender things; telling me how she loved
me, and how I was the only one in all the world to whom she dared come
on this, her wedding night, for comfort or congratulation, and of how
frightened she felt now it was all over, as if with her name she had
parted with something of inestimable value.

"And does not the thought of having made some one the proudest of men
solace you?" I asked, more than dismayed at this failure of mine to make
these lovers happy.

"I don't know," she sobbed. "What satisfaction can it be for him to
feel himself tied for life to a girl who, sooner than lose a prospective
fortune, subjected him to such a parting?"

"Tell me about it," said I.

But she was not in the mood at that moment. The excitement of the day
had been too much for her. A thousand fears seemed to beset her mind.
Crouching down on the stool at my feet, she sat with her hands folded
and a glare on her face that lent an aspect of strange unreality to her
brilliant attire. "How shall I keep it secret! The thought haunts me
every moment; how can I keep it secret!"

"Why, is there any danger of its being known?" I inquired. "Were you
seen or followed?"

"No," she murmured. "It all went off well, but----"

"Where is the danger, then?"

"I cannot say; but some deeds are like ghosts. They will not be laid;
they reappear; they gibber; they make themselves known whether we will
or not. I did not think of this before. I was mad, reckless, what you
will. But ever since the night has come, I have felt it crushing upon me
like a pall that smothers life and youth and love out of my heart. While
the sunlight remained I could endure it; but now--oh, Auntie, I have
done something that will keep me in constant fear. I have allied myself
to a living apprehension. I have destroyed my happiness."

I was too aghast to speak.

"For two hours I have played at being gay. Dressed in my bridal white,
and crowned with roses, I have greeted my friends as if they were
wedding-guests, and made believe to myself that all the compliments
bestowed upon me--and they are only too numerous--were just so many
congratulations upon my marriage. But it was no use; Eleanore knew it
was no use. She has gone to her room to pray, while I--I have come here
for the first time, perhaps for the last, to fall at some one's feet and
cry,--' God have mercy upon me!'"

I looked at her in uncontrollable emotion. "Oh, Mary, have I only
succeeded, then, in making you miserable?"

She did not answer; she was engaged in picking up the crown of roses
which had fallen from her hair to the floor.

"If I had not been taught to love money so!" she said at length. "If,
like Eleanore, I could look upon the splendor which has been ours from
childhood as a mere accessory of life, easy to be dropped at the call of
duty or affection! If prestige, adulation, and elegant belongings were
not so much to me; or love, friendship, and domestic happiness more!
If only I could walk a step without dragging the chain of a thousand
luxurious longings after me. Eleanore can. Imperious as she often is in
her beautiful womanhood, haughty as she can be when the delicate quick
of her personality is touched too rudely, I have known her to sit by the
hour in a low, chilly, ill-lighted and ill-smelling garret, cradling a
dirty child on her knee, and feeding with her own hand an impatient old
woman whom no one else would consent to touch. Oh, oh! they talk about
repentance and a change of heart! If some one or something would only
change mine! But there is no hope of that! no hope of my ever being
anything else than what I am: a selfish, wilful, mercenary girl."

Nor was this mood a mere transitory one. That same night she made a
discovery which increased her apprehension almost to terror. This was
nothing less than the fact that Eleanore had been keeping a diary of
the last few weeks. "Oh," she cried in relating this to me the next day,
"what security shall I ever feel as long as this diary of hers remains
to confront me every time I go into her room? And she will not consent
to destroy it, though I have done my best to show her that it is a
betrayal of the trust I reposed in her. She says it is all she has to
show in the way of defence, if uncle should ever accuse her of treachery
to him and his happiness. She promises to keep it locked up; but what
good will that do! A thousand accidents might happen, any of them
sufficient to throw it into uncle's hands. I shall never feel safe for a
moment while it exists."

I endeavored to calm her by saying that if Eleanore was without malice,
such fears were groundless. But she would not be comforted, and seeing
her so wrought up, I suggested that Eleanore should be asked to trust it
into my keeping till such time as she should feel the necessity of using
it. The idea struck Mary favorably. "O yes," she cried; "and I will
put my certificate with it, and so get rid of all my care at once."
And before the afternoon was over, she had seen Eleanore and made her
request.

It was acceded to with this proviso, that I was neither to destroy nor
give up all or any of the papers except upon their united demand. A
small tin box was accordingly procured, into which were put all the
proofs of Mary's marriage then existing, viz.: the certificate, Mr.
Clavering's letters, and such leaves from Eleanore's diary as referred
to this matter. It was then handed over to me with the stipulation
I have already mentioned, and I stowed it away in a certain closet
upstairs, where it has lain undisturbed till last night.

Here Mrs. Belden paused, and, blushing painfully, raised her eyes to
mine with a look in which anxiety and entreaty were curiously blended.

"I don't know what you will say," she began, "but, led away by my
fears, I took that box out of its hiding-place last evening and,
notwithstanding your advice, carried it from the house, and it is
now----"

"In my possession," I quietly finished.

I don't think I ever saw her look more astounded, not even when I told
her of Hannah's death. "Impossible!" she exclaimed. "I left it last
night in the old barn that was burned down. I merely meant to hide it
for the present, and could think of no better place in my hurry; for the
barn is said to be haunted--a man hung himself there once--and no one
ever goes there. I--I--you cannot have it!" she cried, "unless----"

"Unless I found and brought it away before the barn was destroyed," I
suggested.

Her face flushed deeper. "Then you followed me?"

"Yes," said I. Then, as I felt my own countenance redden, hastened to
add: "We have been playing strange and unaccustomed parts, you and I.
Some time, when all these dreadful events shall be a mere dream of the
past, we will ask each other's pardon. But never mind all this now. The
box is safe, and I am anxious to hear the rest of your story."

This seemed to compose her, and after a minute she continued:

Mary seemed more like herself after this. And though, on account of Mr.
Leavenworth's return and their subsequent preparations for departure,
I saw but little more of her, what I did see was enough to make me
fear that, with the locking up of the proofs of her marriage, she was
indulging the idea that the marriage itself had become void. But I may
have wronged her in this.

The story of those few weeks is almost finished. On the eve of the day
before she left, Mary came to my house to bid me good-by. She had a
present in her hand the value of which I will not state, as I did not
take it, though she coaxed me with all her prettiest wiles. But she said
something that night that I have never been able to forget. It was this.
I had been speaking of my hope that before two months had elapsed she
would find herself in a position to send for Mr. Clavering, and that
when that day came I should wish to be advised of it; when she suddenly
interrupted me by saying:

"Uncle will never be won upon, as you call it, while he lives. If I was
convinced of it before, I am sure of it now. Nothing but his death will
ever make it possible for me to send for Mr. Clavering." Then, seeing
me look aghast at the long period of separation which this seemed to
betoken, blushed a little and whispered: "The prospect looks somewhat
dubious, doesn't it? But if Mr. Clavering loves me, he can wait."

"But," said I, "your uncle is only little past the prime of life and
appears to be in robust health; it will be years of waiting, Mary."

"I don't know," she muttered, "I think not. Uncle is not as strong as he
looks and--" She did not say any more, horrified perhaps at the turn the
conversation was taking. But there was an expression on her countenance
that set me thinking at the time, and has kept me thinking ever since.

Not that any actual dread of such an occurrence as has since happened
came to oppress my solitude during the long months which now intervened.
I was as yet too much under the spell of her charm to allow anything
calculated to throw a shadow over her image to remain long in my
thoughts. But when, some time in the fall, a letter came to me
personally from Mr. Clavering, filled with a vivid appeal to tell
him something of the woman who, in spite of her vows, doomed him to a
suspense so cruel, and when, on the evening of the same day, a friend
of mine who had just returned from New York spoke of meeting Mary
Leavenworth at some gathering, surrounded by manifest admirers, I began
to realize the alarming features of the affair, and, sitting down, I
wrote her a letter. Not in the strain in which I had been accustomed to
talk to her,--I had not her pleading eyes and trembling, caressing hands
ever before me to beguile my judgment from its proper exercise,--but
honestly and earnestly, telling her how Mr. Clavering felt, and what a
risk she ran in keeping so ardent a lover from his rights. The reply she
sent rather startled me.

"I have put Mr. Robbins out of my calculations for the present, and
advise you to do the same. As for the gentleman himself, I have told him
that when I could receive him I would be careful to notify him. That day
has not yet come.

"But do not let him be discouraged," she added in a postscript. "When he
does receive his happiness, it will be a satisfying one."

_When, _I thought. Ah, it is that _when_ which is likely to ruin all!
But, intent only upon fulfilling her will, I sat down and wrote a letter
to Mr. Clavering, in which I stated what she had said, and begged him
to have patience, adding that I would surely let him know if any change
took place in Mary or her circumstances. And, having despatched it to
his address in London, awaited the development of events.

They were not slow in transpiring. In two weeks I heard of the sudden
death of Mr. Stebbins, the minister who had married them; and while
yet laboring under the agitation produced by this shock, was further
startled by seeing in a New York paper the name of Mr. Clavering among
the list of arrivals at the Hoffman House; showing that my letter to
him had failed in its intended effect, and that the patience Mary had
calculated upon so blindly was verging to its end. I was consequently
far from being surprised when, in a couple of weeks or so afterwards,
a letter came from him to my address, which, owing to the careless
omission of the private mark upon the envelope, I opened, and read
enough to learn that, driven to desperation by the constant failures
which he had experienced in all his endeavors to gain access to her in
public or private, a failure which he was not backward in ascribing
to her indisposition to see him, he had made up his mind to risk
everything, even her displeasure; and, by making an appeal to her uncle,
end the suspense under which he was laboring, definitely and at once. "I
want you," he wrote; "dowered or dowerless, it makes little difference
to me. If you will not come of yourself, then I must follow the example
of the brave knights, my ancestors; storm the castle that holds you, and
carry you off by force of arms."

Neither can I say I was much surprised, knowing Mary as I did, when, in
a few days from this, she forwarded to me for copying, this reply: "If
Mr. Robbins ever expects to be happy with Amy Belden, let him reconsider
the determination of which he speaks. Not only would he by such an
action succeed in destroying the happiness of her he professes to love,
but run the greater risk of effectually annulling the affection which
makes the tie between them endurable."

To this there was neither date nor signature. It was the cry of warning
which a spirited, self-contained creature gives when brought to bay. It
made even me recoil, though I had known from the first that her pretty
wilfulness was but the tossing foam floating above the soundless depths
of cold resolve and most deliberate purpose.

What its real effect was upon him and her fate I can only conjecture.
All I know is that in two weeks thereafter Mr. Leavenworth was found
murdered in his room, and Hannah Chester, coming direct to my door from
the scene of violence, begged me to take her in and secrete her from
public inquiry, as I loved and desired to serve Mary Leavenworth.



XXXIII. UNEXPECTED TESTIMONY


    _Pol._ What do you read, my lord?
    _Ham._ Words, words, words.
        --Hamlet.

MRS. BELDEN paused, lost in the sombre shadow which these words were
calculated to evoke, and a short silence fell upon the room. It was
broken by my asking for some account of the occurrence she had just
mentioned, it being considered a mystery how Hannah could have found
entrance into her house without the knowledge of the neighbors.

"Well," said she, "it was a chilly night, and I had gone to bed early
(I was sleeping then in the room off this) when, at about a quarter to
one--the last train goes through R---- at 12.50--there came a low knock
on the window-pane at the head of my bed. Thinking that some of the
neighbors were sick, I hurriedly rose on my elbow and asked who
was there. The answer came in low, muffled tones, 'Hannah, Miss
Leavenworth's girl! Please let me in at the kitchen door.' Startled at
hearing the well-known voice, and fearing I knew not what, I caught up
a lamp and hurried round to the door. 'Is any one with you?' I asked.
'No,' she replied. 'Then come in.' But no sooner had she done so than
my strength failed me, and I had to sit down, for I saw she looked very
pale and strange, was without baggage, and altogether had the appearance
of some wandering spirit. 'Hannah!' I gasped, 'what is it? what has
happened? what brings you here in this condition and at this time
of night?' 'Miss Leavenworth has sent me,' she replied, in the low,
monotonous tone of one repeating a lesson by rote. 'She told me to come
here; said you would keep me. I am not to go out of the house, and no
one is to know I am here.' 'But why?' I asked, trembling with a thousand
undefined fears; 'what has occurred?' 'I dare not say,' she whispered;
'I am forbid; I am just to stay here, and keep quiet.' 'But,' I began,
helping her to take off her shawl,--the dingy blanket advertised for
in the papers--'you must tell me. She surely did not forbid you to tell
_me?_' 'Yes she did; every one,' the girl replied, growing white in her
persistence, 'and I never break my word; fire couldn't draw it out
of me.' She looked so determined, so utterly unlike herself, as I
remembered her in the meek, unobtrusive days of our old acquaintance,
that I could do nothing but stare at her. 'You will keep me,' she said;
'you will not turn me away?' 'No,' I said, 'I will not turn you away.'
'And tell no one?' she went on. 'And tell no one,' I repeated.

"This seemed to relieve her. Thanking me, she quietly followed me
up-stairs. I put her into the room in which you found her, because it
was the most secret one in the house; and there she has remained ever
since, satisfied and contented, as far as I could see, till this very
same horrible day."

"And is that all?" I asked. "Did you have no explanation with her
afterwards? Did she never give you any information in regard to the
transactions which led to her flight?"

"No, sir. She kept a most persistent silence. Neither then nor when,
upon the next day, I confronted her with the papers in my hand, and the
awful question upon my lips as to whether her flight had been occasioned
by the murder which had taken place in Mr. Leavenworth's household, did
she do more than acknowledge she had run away on this account. Some one
or something had sealed her lips, and, as she said, 'Fire and torture
should never make her speak.'"

Another short pause followed this; then, with my mind still hovering
about the one point of intensest interest to me, I said:

"This story, then, this account which you have just given me of Mary
Leavenworth's secret marriage and the great strait it put her
into--a strait from which nothing but her uncle's death could relieve
her--together with this acknowledgment of Hannah's that she had left
home and taken refuge here on the insistence of Mary Leavenworth, is the
groundwork you have for the suspicions you have mentioned?"

"Yes, sir; that and the proof of her interest in the matter which is
given by the letter I received from her yesterday, and which you say you
have now in your possession."

Oh, that letter!

"I know," Mrs. Belden went on in a broken voice, "that it is wrong, in a
serious case like this, to draw hasty conclusions; but, oh, sir, how can
I help it, knowing what I do?"

I did not answer; I was revolving in my mind the old question: was it
possible, in face of all these later developments, still to believe Mary
Leavenworth's own hand guiltless of her uncle's blood?

"It is dreadful to come to such conclusions," proceeded Mrs. Belden,
"and nothing but her own words written in her own hand would ever have
driven me to them, but----"

"Pardon me," I interrupted; "but you said in the beginning of this
interview that you did not believe Mary herself had any direct hand in
her uncle's murder. Are you ready to repeat that assertion?"

"Yes, yes, indeed. Whatever I may think of her influence in inducing
it, I never could imagine her as having anything to do with its actual
performance. Oh, no! oh, no! whatever was done on that dreadful night,
Mary Leavenworth never put hand to pistol or ball, or even stood by
while they were used; that you may be sure of. Only the man who loved
her, longed for her, and felt the impossibility of obtaining her by any
other means, could have found nerve for an act so horrible."

"Then you think----"

"Mr. Clavering is the man? I do: and oh, sir, when you consider that he
is her husband, is it not dreadful enough?"

"It is, indeed," said I, rising to conceal how much I was affected by
this conclusion of hers.

Something in my tone or appearance seemed to startle her. "I hope and
trust I have not been indiscreet," she cried, eying me with something
like an incipient distrust. "With this dead girl lying in my house, I
ought to be very careful, I know, but----"

"You have said nothing," was my earnest assurance as I edged towards the
door in my anxiety to escape, if but for a moment, from an atmosphere
that was stifling me. "No one can blame you for anything you have
either said or done to-day. But"--and here I paused and walked hurriedly
back,--"I wish to ask one question more. Have you any reason, beyond
that of natural repugnance to believing a young and beautiful woman
guilty of a great crime, for saying what you have of Henry Clavering, a
gentleman who has hitherto been mentioned by you with respect?"

"No," she whispered, with a touch of her old agitation.

I felt the reason insufficient, and turned away with something of the
same sense of suffocation with which I had heard that the missing key
had been found in Eleanore Leavenworth's possession. "You must excuse
me," I said; "I want to be a moment by myself, in order to ponder over
the facts which I have just heard; I will soon return "; and without
further ceremony, hurried from the room.

By some indefinable impulse, I went immediately up-stairs, and took my
stand at the western window of the large room directly over Mrs. Belden.
The blinds were closed; the room was shrouded in funereal gloom, but
its sombreness and horror were for the moment unfelt; I was engaged in
a fearful debate with myself. Was Mary Leavenworth the principal, or
merely the accessory, in this crime? Did the determined prejudice of Mr.
Gryce, the convictions of Eleanore, the circumstantial evidence even of
such facts as had come to our knowledge, preclude the possibility
that Mrs. Belden's conclusions were correct? That all the detectives
interested in the affair would regard the question as settled, I did not
doubt; but need it be? Was it utterly impossible to find evidence yet
that Henry Clavering was, after all, the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth?

Filled with the thought, I looked across the room to the closet where
lay the body of the girl who, according to all probability, had known
the truth of the matter, and a great longing seized me. Oh, why could
not the dead be made to speak? Why should she lie there so silent, so
pulseless, so inert, when a word from her were enough to decide the
awful question? Was there no power to compel those pallid lips to move?

Carried away by the fervor of the moment, I made my way to her side. Ah,
God, how still! With what a mockery the closed lips and lids confronted
my demanding gaze! A stone could not have been more unresponsive.

With a feeling that was almost like anger, I stood there, when--what
was it I saw protruding from beneath her shoulders where they crushed
against the bed? An envelope? a letter? Yes.

Dizzy with the sudden surprise, overcome with the wild hopes this
discovery awakened, I stooped in great agitation and drew the letter
out. It was sealed but not directed. Breaking it hastily open, I took
a glance at its contents. Good heavens! it was the work of the girl
herself!--its very appearance was enough to make that evident! Feeling
as if a miracle had happened, I hastened with it into the other room,
and set myself to decipher the awkward scrawl.

This is what I saw, rudely printed in lead pencil on the inside of a
sheet of common writing-paper:

"I am a wicked girl. I have knone things all the time which I had ought
to have told but I didn't dare to he said he would kill me if I did I
mene the tall splendud looking gentulman with the black mustash who I
met coming out of Mister Levenworth's room with a key in his hand the
night Mr. Levenworth was murdered. He was so scared he gave me money and
made me go away and come here and keep every thing secret but I can't do
so no longer. I seem to see Miss Elenor all the time crying and asking
me if I want her sent to prisun. God knows I'd rathur die. And this is
the truth and my last words and I pray every body's forgivness and hope
nobody will blame me and that they wont bother Miss Elenor any more but
go and look after the handsome gentulman with the black mushtash."



BOOK IV. THE PROBLEM SOLVED



XXXIV. MR. GRYCE RESUMES CONTROL


    "It out-herods Herod."
        --Hamlet.

    "A thing devised by the enemy."
        --Richard III

A HALF-HOUR had passed. The train upon which I had every reason to
expect Mr. Gryce had arrived, and I stood in the doorway awaiting with
indescribable agitation the slow and labored approach of the motley
group of men and women whom I had observed leave the depot at the
departure of the cars. Would he be among them? Was the telegram of a
nature peremptory enough to make his presence here, sick as he was, an
absolute certainty? The written confession of Hannah throbbing against
my heart, a heart all elation now, as but a short half-hour before it
had been all doubt and struggle, seemed to rustle distrust, and the
prospect of a long afternoon spent in impatience was rising before me,
when a portion of the advancing crowd turned off into a side street,
and I saw the form of Mr. Gryce hobbling, not on two sticks, but very
painfully on one, coming slowly down the street.

His face, as he approached, was a study.

"Well, well, well," he exclaimed, as we met at the gate; "this is a
pretty how-dye-do, I must say. Hannah dead, eh? and everything turned
topsy-turvy! Humph, and what do you think of Mary Leavenworth now?"

It would therefore seem natural, in the conversation which followed his
introduction into the house and installment in Mrs. Belden's parlor,
that I should begin my narration by showing him Hannah's confession; but
it was not so. Whether it was that I felt anxious to have him go through
the same alternations of hope and fear it had been my lot to experience
since I came to R----; or whether, in the depravity of human nature,
there lingered within me sufficient resentment for the persistent
disregard he had always paid to my suspicions of Henry Clavering to make
it a matter of moment to me to spring this knowledge upon him just at
the instant his own convictions seemed to have reached the point of
absolute certainty, I cannot say. Enough that it was not till I had
given him a full account of every other matter connected with my stay in
this house; not till I saw his eye beaming, and his lip quivering with
the excitement incident upon the perusal of the letter from Mary, found
in Mrs. Belden's pocket; not, indeed, until I became assured from such
expressions as "Tremendous! The deepest game of the season! Nothing
like it since the Lafarge affair!" that in another moment he would be
uttering some theory or belief that once heard would forever stand like
a barrier between us, did I allow myself to hand him the letter I had
taken from under the dead body of Hannah.

I shall never forget his expression as he received it; "Good heavens!"
cried he, "what's this?"

"A dying confession of the girl Hannah. I found it lying in her bed when
I went up, a half-hour ago, to take a second look at her."

Opening it, he glanced over it with an incredulous air that speedily,
however, turned to one of the utmost astonishment, as he hastily perused
it, and then stood turning it over and over in his hand, examining it.

"A remarkable piece of evidence," I observed, not without a certain
feeling of triumph; "quite changes the aspect of affairs!"

"Think so?" he sharply retorted; then, whilst I stood staring at him in
amazement, his manner was so different from what I expected, looked up
and said: "You tell me that you found this in her bed. Whereabouts in
her bed?"

"Under the body of the girl herself," I returned. "I saw one corner of
it protruding from beneath her shoulders, and drew it out."

He came and stood before me. "Was it folded or open, when you first
looked at it?"

"Folded; fastened up in this envelope," showing it to him.

He took it, looked at it for a moment, and went on with his questions.

"This envelope has a very crumpled appearance, as well as the letter
itself. Were they so when you found them?"

"Yes, not only so, but doubled up as you see."

"Doubled up? You are sure of that? Folded, sealed, and then doubled up
as if her body had rolled across it while alive?"

"Yes."

"No trickery about it? No look as if the thing had been insinuated there
since her death?"

"Not at all. I should rather say that to every appearance she held it in
her hand when she lay down, but turning over, dropped it and then laid
upon it."

Mr. Gryce's eyes, which had been very bright, ominously clouded;
evidently he had been disappointed in my answers, paying the letter
down, he stood musing, but suddenly lifted it again, scrutinized the
edges of the paper on which it was written, and, darting me a quick
look, vanished with it into the shade of the window curtain. His manner
was so peculiar, I involuntarily rose to follow; but he waved me back,
saying:

"Amuse yourself with that box on the table, which you had such an ado
over; see if it contains all we have a right to expect to find in it. I
want to be by myself for a moment."

Subduing my astonishment, I proceeded to comply with his request, but
scarcely had I lifted the lid of the box before me when he came hurrying
back, flung the letter down on the table with an air of the greatest
excitement, and cried:

"Did I say there had never been anything like it since the Lafarge
affair? I tell you there has never been anything like it in any affair.
It is the rummest case on record! Mr. Raymond," and his eyes, in his
excitement, actually met mine for the first time in my experience of
him, "prepare yourself for a disappointment. This pretended confession
of Hannah's is a fraud!"

"A fraud?"

"Yes; fraud, forgery, what you will; the girl never wrote it."

Amazed, outraged almost, I bounded from my chair. "How do you know
that?" I cried.

Bending forward, he put the letter into my hand. "Look at it," said he;
"examine it closely. Now tell me what is the first thing you notice in
regard to it?"

"Why, the first thing that strikes me, is that the words are printed,
instead of written; something which might be expected from this girl,
according to all accounts."

"Well?"

"That they are printed on the inside of a sheet of ordinary paper----"

"Ordinary paper?"

"Yes."

"That is, a sheet of commercial note of the ordinary quality."

"Of course."

"But is it?"

"Why, yes; I should say so."

"Look at the lines."

"What of them? Oh, I see, they run up close to the top of the page;
evidently the scissors have been used here."

"In short, it is a large sheet, trimmed down to the size of commercial
note?"

"Yes."

"And is that all you see?"

"All but the words."

"Don't you perceive what has been lost by means of this trimming down?"

"No, unless you mean the manufacturer's stamp in the corner." Mr.
Gryce's glance took meaning. "But I don't see why the loss of that
should be deemed a matter of any importance."

"Don't you? Not when you consider that by it we seem to be deprived of
all opportunity of tracing this sheet back to the quire of paper from
which it was taken?"

"No."

"Humph! then you are more of an amateur than I thought you. Don't you
see that, as Hannah could have had no motive for concealing where the
paper came from on which she wrote her dying words, this sheet must have
been prepared by some one else?"

"No," said I; "I cannot say that I see all that."

"Can't! Well then, answer me this. Why should Hannah, a girl about to
commit suicide, care whether any clue was furnished, in her confession,
to the actual desk, drawer, or quire of paper from which the sheet was
taken, on which she wrote it?"

"She wouldn't."

"Yet especial pains have been taken to destroy that clue."

"But----"

"Then there is another thing. Read the confession itself, Mr. Raymond,
and tell me what you gather from it."

"Why," said I, after complying, "that the girl, worn out with constant
apprehension, has made up her mind to do away with herself, and that
Henry Clavering----"

"Henry Clavering?"

The interrogation was put with so much meaning, I looked up. "Yes," said
I.

"Ah, I didn't know that Mr. Clavering's name was mentioned there; excuse
me."

"His name is not mentioned, but a description is given so strikingly in
accordance----"

Here Mr. Gryce interrupted me. "Does it not seem a little surprising to
you that a girl like Hannah should have stopped to describe a man she
knew by name?"

I started; it was unnatural surely.

"You believe Mrs. Belden's story, don't you?"

"Yes."

"Consider her accurate in her relation of what took place here a year
ago?"

"I do."

"Must believe, then, that Hannah, the go-between, was acquainted with
Mr. Clavering and with his name?"

"Undoubtedly."

"Then why didn't she use it? If her intention was, as she here
professes, to save Eleanore Leavenworth from the false imputation which
had fallen upon her, she would naturally take the most direct method
of doing it. This description of a man whose identity she could have at
once put beyond a doubt by the mention of his name is the work, not of
a poor, ignorant girl, but of some person who, in attempting to play the
_role_ of one, has signally failed. But that is not all. Mrs. Belden,
according to you, maintains that Hannah told her, upon entering the
house, that Mary Leavenworth sent her here. But in this document, she
declares it to have been the work of Black Mustache."

"I know; but could they not have both been parties to the transaction?"

"Yes," said he; "yet it is always a suspicious circumstance, when there
is a discrepancy between the written and spoken declaration of a person.
But why do we stand here fooling, when a few words from this Mrs.
Belden, you talk so much about, will probably settle the whole matter!"

"A few words from Mrs. Belden," I repeated. "I have had thousands
from her to-day, and find the matter no nearer settled than in the
beginning."

"_You_ have had," said he, "but I have not. Fetch her in, Mr. Raymond."

I rose. "One thing," said I, "before I go. What if Hannah had found the
sheet of paper, trimmed just as it is, and used it without any thought
of the suspicions it would occasion!"

"Ah!" said he, "that is just what we are going to find out."

Mrs. Belden was in a flutter of impatience when I entered the
sitting-room. When did I think the coroner would come? and what did I
imagine this detective would do for us? It was dreadful waiting there
alone for something, she knew not what.

I calmed her as well as I could, telling her the detective had not yet
informed me what he could do, having some questions to ask her first.
Would she come in to see him? She rose with alacrity. Anything was
better than suspense.

Mr. Gryce, who in the short interim of my absence had altered his mood
from the severe to the beneficent, received Mrs. Belden with just that
show of respectful courtesy likely to impress a woman as dependent as
she upon the good opinion of others.

"Ah! and this is the lady in whose house this very disagreeable event
has occurred," he exclaimed, partly rising in his enthusiasm to greet
her. "May I request you to sit," he asked; "if a stranger may be allowed
to take the liberty of inviting a lady to sit in her own house."

"It does not seem like my own house any longer," said she, but in a sad,
rather than an aggressive tone; so much had his genial way imposed upon
her. "Little better than a prisoner here, go and come, keep silence or
speak, just as I am bidden; and all because an unhappy creature, whom
I took in for the most unselfish of motives, has chanced to die in my
house!"

"Just so!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce; "it is very unjust. But perhaps we can
right matters. I have every reason to believe we can. This sudden death
ought to be easily explained. You say you had no poison in the house?"

"No, sir."

"And that the girl never went out?"

"Never, sir."

"And that no one has ever been here to see her?"

"No one, sir."

"So that she could not have procured any such thing if she had wished?"

"No, sir."

"Unless," he added suavely, "she had it with her when she came here?"

"That couldn't have been, sir. She brought no baggage; and as for her
pocket, I know everything there was in it, for I looked."

"And what did you find there?"

"Some money in bills, more than you would have expected such a girl to
have, some loose pennies, and a common handkerchief."

"Well, then, it is proved the girl didn't die of poison, there being
none in the house."

He said this in so convinced a tone she was deceived.

"That is just what I have been telling Mr. Raymond," giving me a
triumphant look.

"Must have been heart disease," he went on, "You say she was well
yesterday?"

"Yes, sir; or seemed so."

"Though not cheerful?"

"I did not say that; she was, sir, very."

"What, ma'am, this girl?" giving me a look. "I don't understand that. I
should think her anxiety about those she had left behind her in the city
would have been enough to keep her from being very cheerful."

"So you would," returned Mrs. Belden; "but it wasn't so. On the
contrary, she never seemed to worry about them at all."

"What! not about Miss Eleanore, who, according to the papers, stands
in so cruel a position before the world? But perhaps she didn't know
anything about that--Miss Leavenworth's position, I mean?"

"Yes, she did, for I told her. I was so astonished I could not keep
it to myself. You see, I had always considered Eleanore as one above
reproach, and it so shocked me to see her name mentioned in the
newspaper in such a connection, that I went to Hannah and read the
article aloud, and watched her face to see how she took it."

"And how did she?"

"I can't say. She looked as if she didn't understand; asked me why I
read such things to her, and told me she didn't want to hear any more;
that I had promised not to trouble her about this murder, and that if I
continued to do so she wouldn't listen."

"Humph! and what else?"

"Nothing else. She put her hand over her ears and frowned in such a
sullen way I left the room."

"That was when?"

"About three weeks ago."

"She has, however, mentioned the subject since?"

"No, sir; not once."

"What! not asked what they were going to do with her mistress?"

"No, sir."

"She has shown, however, that something was preying on her mind--fear,
remorse, or anxiety?"

"No, sir; on the contrary, she has oftener appeared like one secretly
elated."

"But," exclaimed Mr. Gryce, with another sidelong look at me, "that was
very strange and unnatural. I cannot account for it."

"Nor I, sir. I used to try to explain it by thinking her sensibilities
had been blunted, or that she was too ignorant to comprehend the
seriousness of what had happened; but as I learned to know her better,
I gradually changed my mind. There was too much method in her gayety for
that. I could not help seeing she had some future before her for which
she was preparing herself. As, for instance, she asked me one day if I
thought she could learn to play on the piano. And I finally came to the
conclusion she had been promised money if she kept the secret intrusted
to her, and was so pleased with the prospect that she forgot the
dreadful past, and all connected with it. At all events, that was the
only explanation I could find for her general industry and desire to
improve herself, or for the complacent smiles I detected now and then
stealing over her face when she didn't know I was looking."

Not such a smile as crept over the countenance of Mr. Gryce at that
moment, I warrant.

"It was all this," continued Mrs. Belden, "which made her death such a
shock to me. I couldn't believe that so cheerful and healthy a creature
could die like that, all in one night, without anybody knowing anything
about it. But----"

"Wait one moment," Mr. Gryce here broke in. "You speak of her endeavors
to improve herself. What do you mean by that?"

"Her desire to learn things she didn't know; as, for instance, to write
and read writing. She could only clumsily print when she came here."

I thought Mr. Gryce would take a piece out of my arm, he griped it so.

"When she came here! Do you mean to say that since she has been with you
she has learned to write?"

"Yes, sir; I used to set her copies and----"

"Where are these copies?" broke in Mr. Gryce, subduing his voice to its
most professional tone. "And where are her attempts at writing? I'd like
to see some of them. Can't you get them for us?"

"I don't know, sir. I always made it a point to destroy them as soon as
they had answered their purpose. I didn't like to have such things lying
around. But I will go see."

"Do," said he; "and I will go with you. I want to take a look at things
upstairs, any way." And, heedless of his rheumatic feet, he rose and
prepared to accompany her.

"This is getting very intense," I whispered, as he passed me.

The smile he gave me in reply would have made the fortune of a Thespian
Mephistopheles.

Of the ten minutes of suspense which I endured in their absence, I say
nothing. At the end of that time they returned with their hands full of
paper boxes, which they flung down on the table.

"The writing-paper of the household," observed Mr. Gryce; "every scrap
and half-sheet which could be found. But, before you examine it, look at
this." And he held out a sheet of bluish foolscap, on which were written
some dozen imitations of that time-worn copy, "BE GOOD AND YOU WILL
BE HAPPY"; with an occasional "_Beauty soon fades,"_ and "_Evil
communications corrupt good manners."_

"What do you think of that?"

"Very neat and very legible."

"That is Hannah's latest. The only specimens of her writing to be found.
Not much like some scrawls we have seen, eh?"

"No."

"Mrs. Belden says this girl has known how to write as good as this for
more than a week. Took great pride in it, and was continually talking
about how smart she was." Leaning over, he whispered in my ear, "This
thing you have in your hand must have been scrawled some time ago, if
she did it." Then aloud: "But let us look at the paper she used to write
on."

Dashing open the covers of the boxes on the table, he took out the loose
sheets lying inside, and scattered them out before me. One glance showed
they were all of an utterly different quality from that used in the
confession. "This is all the paper in the house," said he.

"Are you sure of that?" I asked, looking at Mrs. Belden, who stood in
a sort of maze before us. "Wasn't there one stray sheet lying around
somewhere, foolscap or something like that, which she might have got
hold of and used without your knowing it?"

"No, sir; I don't think so. I had only these kinds; besides, Hannah had
a whole pile of paper like this in her room, and wouldn't have been apt
to go hunting round after any stray sheets."

"But you don't know what a girl like that might do. Look at this one,"
said I, showing her the blank side of the confession. "Couldn't a sheet
like this have come from somewhere about the house? Examine it well; the
matter is important."

"I have, and I say, no, I never had a sheet of paper like that in my
house."

Mr. Gryce advanced and took the confession from my hand. As he did so,
he whispered: "What do you think now? Many chances that Hannah got up
this precious document?"

I shook my head, convinced at last; but in another moment turned to him
and whispered back: "But, if Hannah didn't write it, who did? And how
came it to be found where it was?"

"That," said he, "is just what is left for us to learn." And, beginning
again, he put question after question concerning the girl's life in the
house, receiving answers which only tended to show that she could not
have brought the confession with her, much less received it from a
secret messenger. Unless we doubted Mrs. Belden's word, the mystery
seemed impenetrable, and I was beginning to despair of success, when Mr.
Gryce, with an askance look at me, leaned towards Mrs. Belden and said:

"You received a letter from Miss Mary Leavenworth yesterday, I hear."

"Yes, sir."

"_This_ letter?" he continued, showing it to her.

"Yes, sir."

"Now I want to ask you a question. Was the letter, as you see it, the
only contents of the envelope in which it came? Wasn't there one for
Hannah enclosed with it?"

"No, sir. There was nothing in my letter for her; but she had a letter
herself yesterday. It came in the same mail with mine."

"Hannah had a letter!" we both exclaimed; "and in the mail?"

"Yes; but it was not directed to her. It was"--casting me a look full of
despair, "directed to me. It was only by a certain mark in the corner of
the envelope that I knew----"

"Good heaven!" I interrupted; "where is this letter? Why didn't you
speak of it before? What do you mean by allowing us to flounder about
here in the dark, when a glimpse at this letter might have set us right
at once?"

"I didn't think anything about it till this minute. I didn't know it was
of importance. I----"

But I couldn't restrain myself. "Mrs. Belden, where is this letter?" I
demanded. "Have you got it?"

"No," said she; "I gave it to the girl yesterday; I haven't seen it
since."

"It must be upstairs, then. Let us take another look." and I hastened
towards the door.

"You won't find it," said Mr. Gryce at my elbow. "I have looked. There
is nothing but a pile of burned paper in the corner. By the way, what
could that have been?" he asked of Mrs. Belden.

"I don't know, sir. She hadn't anything to burn unless it was the
letter."

"We will see about that," I muttered, hurrying upstairs and bringing
down the wash-bowl with its contents. "If the letter was the one I saw
in your hand at the post-office, it was in a yellow envelope."

"Yes, sir."

"Yellow envelopes burn differently from white paper. I ought to be able
to tell the tinder made by a yellow envelope when I see it. Ah, the
letter has been destroyed; here is a piece of the envelope," and I drew
out of the heap of charred scraps a small bit less burnt than the rest,
and held it up.

"Then there is no use looking here for what the letter contained," said
Mr. Gryce, putting the wash-bowl aside. "We will have to ask you, Mrs.
Belden."

"But I don't know. It was directed to me, to be sure; but Hannah told
me, when she first requested me to teach her how to write, that she
expected such a letter, so I didn't open it when it came, but gave it to
her just as it was."

"You, however, stayed by to see her read it?"

"No, sir; I was in too much of a flurry. Mr. Raymond had just come and I
had no time to think of her. My own letter, too, was troubling me."

"But you surely asked her some questions about it before the day was
out?"

"Yes, sir, when I went up with her tea things; but she had nothing
to say. Hannah could be as reticent as any one I ever knew, when she
pleased. She didn't even admit it was from her mistress."

"Ah! then you thought it was from Miss Leavenworth?"

"Why, yes, sir; what else was I to think, seeing that mark in the
corner? Though, to be sure, it might have been put there by Mr.
Clavering," she thoughtfully added.

"You say she was cheerful yesterday; was she so after receiving this
letter?"

"Yes, sir; as far as I could see. I wasn't with her long; the necessity
I felt of doing something with the box in my charge--but perhaps Mr.
Raymond has told you?"

Mr. Gryce nodded.

"It was an exhausting evening, and quite put Hannah out of my head,
but----"

"Wait!" cried Mr. Gryce, and beckoning me into a corner, he whispered,
"Now comes in that experience of Q's. While you are gone from the house,
and before Mrs. Belden sees Hannah again, he has a glimpse of the girl
bending over something in the corner of her room which may very fairly
be the wash-bowl we found there. After which, he sees her swallow, in
the most lively way, a dose of something from a bit of paper. Was there
anything more?"

"No," said I.

"Very well, then," he cried, going back to Mrs. Belden. "But----"

"But when I went upstairs to bed, I thought of the girl, and going to
her door opened it. The light was extinguished, and she seemed asleep,
so I closed it again and came out."

"Without speaking?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you notice how she was lying?"

"Not particularly. I think on her back."

"In something of the same position in which she was found this morning?"

"Yes, sir."

"And that is all you can tell us, either of her letter or her mysterious
death?"

"All, sir."

Mr. Gryce straightened himself up.

"Mrs. Belden," said he, "you know Mr. Clavering's handwriting when _you_
see it?"

"I do."

"And Miss Leavenworth's?"

"Yes, sir."

"Now, which of the two was upon the envelope of the letter you gave
Hannah?"

"I couldn't say. It was a disguised handwriting and might have been that
of either; but I think----"

"Well?"

"That it was more like hers than his, though it wasn't like hers
either."

With a smile, Mr. Gryce enclosed the confession in his hand in the
envelope in which it had been found. "You remember how large the letter
was which you gave her?"

"Oh, it was large, very large; one of the largest sort."

"And thick?"

"O yes; thick enough for two letters."

"Large enough and thick enough to contain this?" laying the confession,
folded and enveloped as it was, before her.

"Yes, sir," giving it a look of startled amazement, "large enough and
thick enough to contain that."

Mr. Gryce's eyes, bright as diamonds, flashed around the room, and
finally settled upon a fly traversing my coat-sleeve. "Do you need to
ask now," he whispered, in a low voice, "where, and from whom, this
so-called confession comes?"

He allowed himself one moment of silent triumph, then rising, began
folding the papers on the table and putting them in his pocket.

"What are you going to do?" I asked, hurriedly approaching.

He took me by the arm and led me across the hall into toe sitting-room.
"I am going back to New York, I am going to pursue this matter. I am
going to find out from whom came the poison which killed this girl, and
by whose hand this vile forgery of a confession was written."

"But," said I, rather thrown off my balance by all this, "Q and the
coroner will be here presently, won't you wait to see them?"

"No; clues such as are given here must be followed while the trail is
hot; I can't afford to wait."

"If I am not mistaken, they have already come," I remarked, as a
tramping of feet without announced that some one stood at the door.

"That is so," he assented, hastening to let them in.

Judging from common experience, we had every reason to fear that an
immediate stop would be put to all proceedings on our part, as soon as
the coroner was introduced upon the scene. But happily for us and the
interest at stake, Dr. Fink, of R ----, proved to be a very sensible
man. He had only to hear a true story of the affair to recognize at
once its importance and the necessity of the most cautious action in
the matter. Further, by a sort of sympathy with Mr. Gryce, all the more
remarkable that he had never seen him before, he expressed himself
as willing to enter into our plans, offering not only to allow us the
temporary use of such papers as we desired, but even undertaking to
conduct the necessary formalities of calling a jury and instituting
an inquest in such a way as to give us time for the investigations we
proposed to make.

The delay was therefore short. Mr. Gryce was enabled to take the 6:30
train for New York, and I to follow on the 10 p.m.,--the calling of a
jury, ordering of an autopsy, and final adjournment of the inquiry till
the following Tuesday, having all taken place in the interim.



XXXV. FINE WORK


    "No hinge nor loop
     To hang a doubt on!"
    "But yet the pity of it, Iago!
     Oh, Iago, the pity of it, Iago."
        --Othello.

One sentence dropped by Mr. Gryce before leaving R---- prepared me for
his next move.

"The clue to this murder is supplied by the paper on which the
confession is written. Find from whose desk or portfolio this especial
sheet was taken, and you find the double murderer," he had said.

Consequently, I was not surprised when, upon visiting his house, early
the next morning, I beheld him seated before a table on which lay
a lady's writing-desk and a pile of paper, till told the desk was
Eleanore's. Then I did show astonishment. "What," said I, "are you not
satisfied yet of her innocence?"

"O yes; but one must be thorough. No conclusion is valuable which is not
preceded by a full and complete investigation. Why," he cried, casting
his eyes complacently towards the fire-tongs, "I have even been
rummaging through Mr. Clavering's effects, though the confession bears
the proof upon its face that it could not have been written by him. It
is not enough to look for evidence where you expect to find it. You must
sometimes search for it where you don't. Now," said he, drawing the desk
before him, "I don't anticipate finding anything here of a criminating
character; but it is among the possibilities that I may; and that is
enough for a detective."

"Did you see Miss Leavenworth this morning?" I asked, as he proceeded
to fulfil his intention by emptying the contents of the desk upon the
table.

"Yes; I was unable to procure what I desired without it. And she behaved
very handsomely, gave me the desk with her own hands, and never raised
an objection. To be sure, she had little idea what I was looking for;
thought, perhaps, I wanted to make sure it did not contain the letter
about which so much has been said. But it would have made but little
difference if she had known the truth. This desk contains nothing _we_
want."

"Was she well; and had she heard of Hannah's sudden death?" I asked, in
my irrepressible anxiety.

"Yes, and feels it, as you might expect her to. But let us see what we
have here," said he, pushing aside the desk, and drawing towards him the
stack of paper I have already referred to. "I found this pile, just as
you see it, in a drawer of the library table at Miss Mary Leavenworth's
house in Fifth Avenue. If I am not mistaken, it will supply us with the
clue we want."

"But----"

"But this paper is square, while that of the confession is of the size
and shape of commercial note? I know; but you remember the sheet used in
the confession was trimmed down. Let us compare the quality."

Taking the confession from his pocket and the sheet from the pile before
him, he carefully compared them, then held them out for my inspection. A
glance showed them to be alike in color.

"Hold them up to the light," said he.

I did so; the appearance presented by both was precisely alike.

"Now let us compare the ruling." And, laying them both down on the
table, he placed the edges of the two sheets together. The lines on the
one accommodated themselves to the lines on the other; and that question
was decided.

His triumph was assured. "I was convinced of it," said he. "From the
moment I pulled open that drawer and saw this mass of paper, I knew the
end was come."

"But," I objected, in my old spirit of combativeness, "isn't there any
room for doubt? This paper is of the commonest kind. Every family on the
block might easily have specimens of it in their library."

"That isn't so," he said. "It is letter size, and that has gone out. Mr.
Leavenworth used it for his manuscript, or I doubt if it would have been
found in his library. But, if you are still incredulous, let us see what
can be done," and jumping up, he carried the confession to the window,
looked at it this way and that, and, finally discovering what he wanted,
came back and, laying it before me, pointed out one of the lines of
ruling which was markedly heavier than the rest, and another which was
so faint as to be almost undistinguishable. "Defects like these often
run through a number of consecutive sheets," said he. "If we could find
the identical half-quire from which this was taken, I might show you
proof that would dispel every doubt," and taking up the one that lay on
top, he rapidly counted the sheets. There were but eight. "It might have
been taken from this one," said he; but, upon looking closely at the
ruling, he found it to be uniformly distinct. "Humph! that won't do!"
came from his lips.

The remainder of the paper, some dozen or so half-quires, looked
undisturbed. Mr. Gryce tapped his fingers on the table and a frown
crossed his face. "Such a pretty thing, if it could have been done!" he
longingly exclaimed. Suddenly he took up the next half-quire. "Count the
sheets," said he, thrusting it towards me, and himself lifting another.

I did as I was bid. "Twelve."

He counted his and laid it down. "Go on with the rest," he cried.

I counted the sheets in the next; twelve. He counted those in the one
following, and paused. "Eleven!"

"Count again," I suggested.

He counted again, and quietly put them aside. "I made a mistake," said
he.

But he was not to be discouraged. Taking another half-quire, he went
through with the same operation;--in vain. With a sigh of impatience he
flung it down on the table and looked up. "Halloo!" he cried, "what is
the matter?"

"There are but eleven sheets in this package," I said, placing it in his
hand.

The excitement he immediately evinced was contagious. Oppressed as I
was, I could not resist his eagerness. "Oh, beautiful!" he exclaimed.
"Oh, beautiful! See! the light on the inside, the heavy one on the
outside, and both in positions precisely corresponding to those on
this sheet of Hannah's. What do you think now? Is any further proof
necessary?"

"The veriest doubter must succumb before this," returned I.

With something like a considerate regard for my emotion, he turned away.
"I am obliged to congratulate myself, notwithstanding the gravity of the
discovery that has been made," said he. "It is so neat, so very neat,
and so conclusive. I declare I am myself astonished at the perfection
of the thing. But what a woman that is!" he suddenly cried, in a tone
of the greatest admiration. "What an intellect she has! what shrewdness!
what skill! I declare it is almost a pity to entrap a woman who has done
as well as this--taken a sheet from the very bottom of the pile, trimmed
it into another shape, and then, remembering the girl couldn't write,
put what she had to say into coarse, awkward printing, Hannah-like.
_Splendid_! or would have been, if any other man than myself had
had this thing in charge." And, all animated and glowing with his
enthusiasm, he eyed the chandelier above him as if it were the
embodiment of his own sagacity.

Sunk in despair, I let him go on.

"Could she have done any better?" he now asked. "Watched, circumscribed
as she was, could she have done any better? I hardly think so; the fact
of Hannah's having learned to write after she left here was fatal. No,
she could not have provided against that contingency."

"Mr. Gryce," I here interposed, unable to endure this any longer; "did
you have an interview with Miss Mary Leavenworth this morning?"

"No," said he; "it was not in the line of my present purpose to do so. I
doubt, indeed, if she knew I was in her house. A servant maid who has a
grievance is a very valuable assistant to a detective. With Molly at my
side, I didn't need to pay my respects to the mistress."

"Mr. Gryce," I asked, after another moment of silent self-congratulation
on his part, and of desperate self-control on mine, "what do you propose
to do now? You have followed your clue to the end and are satisfied.
Such knowledge as this is the precursor of action."

"Humph! we will see," he returned, going to his private desk and
bringing out the box of papers which we had no opportunity of looking at
while in R----. "First let us examine these documents, and see if they
do not contain some hint which may be of service to us." And taking out
the dozen or so loose sheets which had been torn from Eleanore's Diary,
he began turning them over.

While he was doing this, I took occasion to examine the contents of
the box. I found them to be precisely what Mrs. Belden had led me to
expect,--a certificate of marriage between Mary and Mr. Clavering and
a half-dozen or more letters. While glancing over the former, a short
exclamation from Mr. Gryce startled me into looking up.

"What is it?" I cried.

He thrust into my hand the leaves of Eleanore's Diary. "Read," said he.
"Most of it is a repetition of what you have already heard from Mrs.
Belden, though given from a different standpoint; but there is one
passage in it which, if I am not mistaken, opens up the way to an
explanation of this murder such as we have not had yet. Begin at the
beginning; you won't find it dull."

Dull! Eleanore's feelings and thoughts during that anxious time, dull!

Mustering up my self-possession, I spread out the leaves in their order
and commenced:

"R----, July 6,-"

"Two days after they got there, you perceive," Mr. Gryce explained.

"--A gentleman was introduced to us to-day upon the _piazza_ whom
I cannot forbear mentioning; first, because he is the most perfect
specimen of manly beauty I ever beheld, and secondly, because Mary, who
is usually so voluble where gentlemen are concerned, had nothing to say
when, in the privacy of our own apartment, I questioned her as to the
effect his appearance and conversation had made upon her. The fact
that he is an Englishman may have something to do with this; Uncle's
antipathy to every one of that nation being as well known to her as to
me. But somehow I cannot feel satisfied of this. Her experience with
Charlie Somerville has made me suspicious. What if the story of last
summer were to be repeated here, with an Englishman for the hero! But
I will not allow myself to contemplate such a possibility. Uncle will
return in a few days, and then all communication with one who, however
prepossessing, is of a family and race with whom it is impossible for
us to unite ourselves, must of necessity cease. I doubt if I should have
thought twice of all this if Mr. Clavering had not betrayed, upon his
introduction to Mary, such intense and unrestrained admiration.

"July 8. The old story is to be repeated. Mary not only submits to the
attentions of Mr. Clavering, but encourages them. To-day she sat
two hours at the piano singing over to him her favorite songs, and
to-night--But I will not put down every trivial circumstance that comes
under my observation; it is unworthy of me. And yet, how can I shut my
eyes when the happiness of so many I love is at stake!

"July 11. If Mr. Clavering is not absolutely in love with Mary, he is on
the verge of it. He is a very fine-looking man, and too honorable to be
trifled with in this reckless fashion.

"July 13. Mary's beauty blossoms like the rose. She was absolutely
wonderful to-night in scarlet and silver. I think her smile the sweetest
I ever beheld, and in this I am sure Mr. Clavering passionately agrees
with me; he never looked away from her to-night. But it is not so easy
to read _her_ heart. To be sure, she appears anything but indifferent
to his fine appearance, strong sense, and devoted affection. But did she
not deceive us into believing she loved Charlie Somerville? In her case,
blush and smile go for little, I fear. Would it not be wiser under the
circumstances to say, I hope?

"July 17. Oh, my heart! Mary came into my room this evening, and
absolutely startled me by falling at my side and burying her face in my
lap. 'Oh, Eleanore, Eleanore!' she murmured, quivering with what seemed
to me very happy sobs. But when I strove to lift her head to my breast,
she slid from my arms, and drawing herself up into her old attitude of
reserved pride, raised her hand as if to impose silence, and haughtily
left the room. There is but one interpretation to put upon this. Mr.
Clavering has expressed his sentiments, and she is filled with that
reckless delight which in its first flush makes one insensible to the
existence of barriers which have hitherto been deemed impassable. When
will Uncle come?

"July 18. Little did I think when I wrote the above that Uncle was
already in the house. He arrived unexpectedly on the last train, and
came into my room just as I was putting away my diary. Looking a little
care-worn, he took me in his arms and then asked for Mary. I dropped my
head, and could not help stammering as I replied that she was in her own
room. Instantly his love took alarm, and leaving me, he hastened to
her apartment, where I afterwards learned he came upon her sitting
abstractedly before her dressing-table with Mr. Clavering's family ring
on her finger. I do not know what followed. An unhappy scene, I fear,
for Mary is ill this morning, and Uncle exceedingly melancholy and
stern.

"Afternoon. We are an unhappy family! Uncle not only refuses to consider
for a moment the question of Mary's alliance with Mr. Clavering, but
even goes so far as to demand his instant and unconditional dismissal.
The knowledge of this came to me in the most distressing way.
Recognizing the state of affairs, but secretly rebelling against a
prejudice which seemed destined to separate two persons otherwise fitted
for each other, I sought Uncle's presence this morning after breakfast,
and attempted to plead their cause. But he almost instantly stopped me
with the remark, 'You are the last one, Eleanore, who should seek to
promote this marriage.' Trembling with apprehension, I asked him
why. 'For the reason that by so doing you work entirely for your own
interest.' More and more troubled, I begged him to explain himself. 'I
mean,' said he, 'that if Mary disobeys me by marrying this Englishman,
I shall disinherit her, and substitute your name for hers in my will as
well as in my affection.'

"For a moment everything swam before my eyes. 'You will never make me so
wretched!' I entreated. 'I will make you my heiress, if Mary persists
in her present determination,' he declared, and without further word
sternly left the room. What could I do but fall on my knees and pray!
Of all in this miserable house, I am the most wretched. To supplant
her! But I shall not be called upon to do it; Mary will give up Mr.
Clavering."

"There!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce. "What do you think of that? Isn't it
becoming plain enough what was Mary's motive for this murder? But go on;
let us hear what followed."

With sinking heart, I continued. The next entry is dated July 19, and
runs thus:

"I was right. After a long struggle with Uncle's invincible will, Mary
has consented to dismiss Mr. Clavering. I was in the room when she
made known her decision, and I shall never forget our Uncle's look of
gratified pride as he clasped her in his arms and called her his own
True Heart. He has evidently been very much exercised over this matter,
and I cannot but feel greatly relieved that affairs have terminated
so satisfactorily. But Mary? What is there in her manner that vaguely
disappoints me? I cannot say. I only know that I felt a powerful
shrinking overwhelm me when she turned her face to me and asked if I
were satisfied now. But I conquered my feelings and held out my hand.
She did not take it.

"July 26. How long the days are! The shadow of our late trial is upon
me yet; I cannot shake it off. I seem to see Mr. Clavering's despairing
face wherever I go. How is it that Mary preserves her cheerfulness? If
she does not love him, I should think the respect which she must feel
for his disappointment would keep her from levity at least.

"Uncle has gone away again. Nothing I could say sufficed to keep him.

"July 28. It has all come out. Mary has only nominally separated from
Mr. Clavering; she still cherishes the idea of one day uniting herself
to him in marriage. The fact was revealed to me in a strange way not
necessary to mention here; and has since been confirmed by Mary herself.
'I admire the man,' she declares, 'and have no intention of giving him
up.' 'Then why not tell Uncle so?' I asked. Her only answer was a bitter
smile and a short,--'I leave that for you to do.'

"July 30. Midnight. Worn completely out, but before my blood cools let
me write. Mary is a wife. I have just returned from seeing her give her
hand to Henry Clavering. Strange that I can write it without quivering
when my whole soul is one flush of indignation and revolt. But let me
state the facts. Having left my room for a few minutes this morning,
I returned to find on my dressing-table a note from Mary in which she
informed me that she was going to take Mrs. Belden for a drive and would
not be back for some hours. Convinced, as I had every reason to be, that
she was on her way to meet Mr. Clavering, I only stopped to put on my
hat--"

There the Diary ceased.

"She was probably interrupted by Mary at this point," explained Mr.
Gryce. "But we have come upon the one thing we wanted to know. Mr.
Leavenworth threatened to supplant Mary with Eleanore if she persisted
in marrying contrary to his wishes. She did so marry, and to avoid the
consequences of her act she----"

"Say no more," I returned, convinced at last. "It is only too clear."

Mr. Gryce rose.

"But the writer of these words is saved," I went on, trying to grasp
the one comfort left me. "No one who reads this Diary will ever dare to
insinuate she is capable of committing a crime."

"Assuredly not; the Diary settles that matter effectually."

I tried to be man enough to think of that and nothing else. To rejoice
in her deliverance, and let every other consideration go; but in this I
did not succeed. "But Mary, her cousin, almost her sister, is lost," I
muttered.

Mr. Gryce thrust his hands into his pockets and, for the first time,
showed some evidence of secret disturbance. "Yes, I am afraid she is;
I really am afraid she is." Then after a pause, during which I felt a
certain thrill of vague hope: "Such an entrancing creature too! It is a
pity, it positively is a pity! I declare, now that the thing is worked
up, I begin to feel almost sorry we have succeeded so well. Strange,
but true. If there was the least loophole out of it," he muttered. "But
there isn't. The thing is clear as A, B, C." Suddenly he rose, and began
pacing the floor very thoughtfully, casting his glances here, there, and
everywhere, except at me, though I believe now, as then, my face was all
he saw.

"Would it be a very great grief to you, Mr. Raymond, if Miss Mary
Leavenworth should be arrested on this charge of murder?" he asked,
pausing before a sort of tank in which two or three disconsolate-looking
fishes were slowly swimming about.

"Yes," said I, "it would; a very great grief."

"Yet it must be done," said he, though with a strange lack of his usual
decision. "As an honest official, trusted to bring the murderer of Mr.
Leavenworth to the notice of the proper authorities, I have got to do
it."

Again that strange thrill of hope at my heart induced by his peculiar
manner.

"Then my reputation as a detective! I ought surely to consider that.
I am not so rich or so famous that I can afford to forget all that a
success like this may bring me. No, lovely as she is, I have got to push
it through." But even as he said this, he became still more thoughtful,
gazing down into the murky depths of the wretched tank before him with
such an intentness I half expected the fascinated fishes to rise from
the water and return his gaze. What was in his mind?

After a little while he turned, his indecision utterly gone. "Mr.
Raymond, come here again at three. I shall then have my report ready for
the Superintendent. I should like to show it to you first, so don't fail
me."

There was something so repressed in his expression, I could not prevent
myself from venturing one question. "Is your mind made up?" I asked.

"Yes," he returned, but in a peculiar tone, and with a peculiar gesture.

"And you are going to make the arrest you speak of?"

"Come at three!"



XXXVI. GATHERED THREADS


    "This is the short and the long of it."
        --Merry Wives of Windsor.

PROMPTLY at the hour named, I made my appearance at Mr. Gryce's door. I
found him awaiting me on the threshold.

"I have met you," said he gravely, "for the purpose of requesting you
not to speak during the coming interview. I am to do the talking; you
the listening. Neither are you to be surprised at anything I may do or
say. I am in a facetious mood"--he did not look so--"and may take it
into my head to address you by another name than your own. If I do,
don't mind it. Above all, don't talk: remember that." And without
waiting to meet my look of doubtful astonishment, he led me softly
up-stairs.

The room in which I had been accustomed to meet him was at the top of
the first flight, but he took me past that into what appeared to be the
garret story, where, after many cautionary signs, he ushered me into
a room of singularly strange and unpromising appearance. In the first
place, it was darkly gloomy, being lighted simply by a very dim and
dirty skylight. Next, it was hideously empty; a pine table and two
hard-backed chairs, set face to face at each end of it, being the only
articles in the room. Lastly, it was surrounded by several closed doors
with blurred and ghostly ventilators over their tops which, being round,
looked like the blank eyes of a row of staring mummies. Altogether it
was a lugubrious spot, and in the present state of my mind made me
feel as if something unearthly and threatening lay crouched in the very
atmosphere. Nor, sitting there cold and desolate, could I imagine that
the sunshine glowed without, or that life, beauty, and pleasure paraded
the streets below.

Mr. Gryce's expression, as he took a seat and beckoned me to do the
same, may have had something to do with this strange sensation, it was
so mysteriously and sombrely expectant.

"You'll not mind the room," said he, in so muffled a tone I scarcely
heard him. "It's an awful lonesome spot, I know; but folks with such
matters before them mustn't be too particular as to the places in which
they hold their consultations, if they don't want all the world to know
as much as they do. Smith," and he gave me an admonitory shake of his
finger, while his voice took a more distinct tone, "I have done the
business; the reward is mine; the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth is found,
and in two hours will be in custody. Do you want to know who it
is?" leaning forward with every appearance of eagerness in tone and
expression.

I stared at him in great amazement. Had anything new come to light? any
great change taken place in his conclusions? All this preparation could
not be for the purpose of acquainting me with what I already knew, yet--

He cut short my conjectures with a low, expressive chuckle. "It was a
long chase, I tell you," raising his voice still more; "a tight go; a
woman in the business too; but all the women in the world can't pull
the wool over the eyes of Ebenezer Gryce when he is on a trail; and the
assassin of Mr. Leavenworth and"--here his voice became actually shrill
in his excitement--"and of Hannah Chester is found.

"Hush!" he went on, though I had neither spoken nor made any move; "you
didn't know Hannah Chester was murdered. Well, she wasn't in one sense
of the word, but in another she was, and by the same hand that killed
the old gentleman. How do I know this? look here! This scrap of paper
was found on the floor of her room; it had a few particles of white
powder sticking to it; those particles were tested last night and found
to be poison. But you say the girl took it herself, that she was a
suicide. You are right, she did take it herself, and it was a suicide;
but who terrified her into this act of self-destruction? Why, the one
who had the most reason to fear her testimony, of course. But the proof,
you say. Well, sir, this girl left a confession behind her, throwing the
onus of the whole crime on a certain party believed to be innocent; this
confession was a forged one, known from three facts; first, that the
paper upon which it was written was unobtainable by the girl in the
place where she was; secondly, that the words used therein were printed
in coarse, awkward characters, whereas Hannah, thanks to the teaching of
the woman under whose care she has been since the murder, had learned to
write very well; thirdly, that the story told in the confession does not
agree with the one related by the girl herself. Now the fact of a forged
confession throwing the guilt upon an innocent party having been found
in the keeping of this ignorant girl, killed by a dose of poison, taken
with the fact here stated, that on the morning of the day on which she
killed herself the girl received from some one manifestly acquainted
with the customs of the Leavenworth family a letter large enough and
thick enough to contain the confession folded, as it was when found,
makes it almost certain to my mind that the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth
sent this powder and this so-called confession to the girl, meaning
her to use them precisely as she did: for the purpose of throwing off
suspicion from the right track and of destroying herself at the same
time; for, as you know, dead men tell no tales."

He paused and looked at the dingy skylight above us. Why did the
air seem to grow heavier and heavier? Why did I shudder in vague
apprehension? I knew all this before; why did it strike me, then, as
something new?

"But who was this? you ask. Ah, that is the secret; that is the bit of
knowledge which is to bring me fame and fortune. But, secret or not,
I don't mind telling you"; lowering his voice and rapidly raising it
again. "The fact is, _I_ can't keep it to myself; it burns like a new
dollar in my pocket. Smith, my boy, the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth--but
stay, who does the world say it is? Whom do the papers point at and
shake their heads over? A woman! a young, beautiful, bewitching woman!
Ha, ha, ha! The papers are right; it is a woman; young, beautiful, and
bewitching too. But what one? Ah, that's the question. There is more
than one woman in this affair. Since Hannah's death I have heard it
openly advanced that she was the guilty party in the crime: bah! Others
cry it is the niece who was so unequally dealt with by her uncle in his
will: bah! again. But folks are not without some justification for this
latter assertion. Eleanore Leavenworth did know more of this matter than
appeared. Worse than that, Eleanore Leavenworth stands in a position of
positive peril to-day. If you don't think so, let me show you what the
detectives have against her.

"First, there is the fact that a handkerchief, with her name on it, was
found stained with pistol grease upon the scene of murder; a place which
she explicitly denies having entered for twenty-four hours previous to
the discovery of the dead body.

"Secondly, the fact that she not only evinced terror when confronted
with this bit of circumstantial evidence, but manifested a decided
disposition, both at this time and others, to mislead inquiry, shirking
a direct answer to some questions and refusing all answer to others.

"Thirdly, that an attempt was made by her to destroy a certain letter
evidently relating to this crime.

"Fourthly, that the key to the library door was seen in her possession.

"All this, taken with the fact that the fragments of the letter which
this same lady attempted to destroy within an hour after the inquest
were afterwards put together, and were found to contain a bitter
denunciation of one of Mr. Leavenworth's nieces, by a gentleman we will
call _X_ in other words, an unknown quantity--makes out a dark case
against _you,_ especially as after investigations revealed the fact that
a secret underlay the history of the Leavenworth family. That, unknown
to the world at large, and Mr. Leavenworth in particular, a marriage
ceremony had been performed a year before in a little town called F----
between a Miss Leavenworth and this same _X._ That, in other words, the
unknown gentleman who, in the letter partly destroyed by Miss Eleanore
Leavenworth, complained to Mr. Leavenworth of the treatment received
by him from one of his nieces, was in fact the secret husband of that
niece. And that, moreover, this same gentleman, under an assumed name,
called on the night of the murder at the house of Mr. Leavenworth and
asked for Miss Eleanore.

"Now you see, with all this against her, Eleanore Leavenworth is lost
if it cannot be proved, first that the articles testifying against her,
viz.: the handkerchief, letter, and key, passed after the murder through
other hands, before reaching hers; and secondly, that some one else had
even a stronger reason than she for desiring Mr. Leavenworth's death at
this time.

"Smith, my boy, both of these hypotheses have been established by me.
By dint of moleing into old secrets, and following unpromising clues, I
have finally come to the conclusion that not Eleanore Leavenworth, dark
as are the appearances against her, but another woman, beautiful as
she, and fully as interesting, is the true criminal. In short, that her
cousin, the exquisite Mary, is the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth, and by
inference of Hannah Chester also."

He brought this out with such force, and with such a look of triumph
and appearance of having led up to it, that I was for the moment
dumbfounded, and started as if I had not known what he was going to say.
The stir I made seemed to awake an echo. Something like a suppressed
cry was in the air about me. All the room appeared to breathe horror and
dismay. Yet when, in the excitement of this fancy, I half turned round
to look, I found nothing but the blank eyes of those dull ventilators
staring upon me.

"You are taken aback!" Mr. Gryce went on. "I don't wonder. Every one
else is engaged in watching the movements of Eleanore Leavenworth; I
only know where to put my hand upon the real culprit. You shake your
head!" (Another fiction.) "You don't believe me! Think I am deceived.
Ha, ha! Ebenezer Gryce deceived after a month of hard work! You are as
bad as Miss Leavenworth herself, who has so little faith in my sagacity
that she offered me, of all men, an enormous reward if I would find for
her the assassin of her uncle! But that is neither here nor there;
you have your doubts, and you are waiting for me to solve them. Well,
nothing is easier. Know first that on the morning of the inquest I made
one or two discoveries not to be found in the records, viz.: that the
handkerchief picked up, as I have said, in Mr. Leavenworth's library,
had notwithstanding its stains of pistol grease, a decided perfume
lingering about it. Going to the dressing-table of the two ladies, I
sought for that perfume, and found it in Mary's room, not Eleanore's.
This led me to examine the pockets of the dresses respectively worn by
them the evening before. In that of Eleanore I found a handkerchief,
presumably the one she had carried at that time. But in Mary's there was
none, nor did I see any lying about her room as if tossed down on
her retiring. The conclusion I drew from this was, that she, and
not Eleanore, had carried the handkerchief into her uncle's room, a
conclusion emphasized by the fact privately communicated to me by one of
the servants, that Mary was in Eleanore's room when the basket of clean
clothes was brought up with this handkerchief lying on top.

"But knowing the liability we are to mistake in such matters as these,
I made another search in the library, and came across a very curious
thing. Lying on the table was a penknife, and scattered on the floor
beneath, in close proximity to the chair, were two or three minute
portions of wood freshly chipped off from the leg of the table; all of
which looked as if some one of a nervous disposition had been sitting
there, whose hand in a moment of self-forgetfulness had caught up the
knife and unconsciously whittled the table. A little thing, you say;
but when the question is, which of two ladies, one of a calm and
self-possessed nature, the other restless in her ways and excitable in
her disposition, was in a certain spot at a certain time, it is these
little things that become almost deadly in their significance. No one
who has been with these two women an hour can hesitate as to whose
delicate hand made that cut in Mr. Leavenworth's library table.

"But we are not done. I distinctly overheard Eleanore accuse her cousin
of this deed. Now such a woman as Eleanore Leavenworth has proved
herself to be never would accuse a relative of crime without the
strongest and most substantial reasons. First, she must have been sure
her cousin stood in a position of such emergency that nothing but
the death of her uncle could release her from it; secondly, that her
cousin's character was of such a nature she would not hesitate to
relieve herself from a desperate emergency by the most desperate of
means; and lastly, been in possession of some circumstantial evidence
against her cousin, seriously corroborative of her suspicions. Smith,
all this was true of Eleanore Leavenworth. As to the character of her
cousin, she has had ample proof of her ambition, love of money, caprice
and deceit, it having been Mary Leavenworth, and not Eleanore, as was
first supposed, who had contracted the secret marriage already spoken
of. Of the critical position in which she stood, let the threat once
made by Mr. Leavenworth to substitute her cousin's name for hers in
his will in case she had married this _x_ be remembered, as well as the
tenacity with which Mary clung to her hopes of future fortune; while for
the corroborative testimony of her guilt which Eleanore is supposed
to have had, remember that previous to the key having been found in
Eleanore's possession, she had spent some time in her cousin's room; and
that it was at Mary's fireplace the half-burned fragments of that letter
were found,--and you have the outline of a report which in an hour's
time from this will lead to the arrest of Mary Leavenworth as the
assassin of her uncle and benefactor."

A silence ensued which, like the darkness of Egypt, could be felt;
then a great and terrible cry rang through the room, and a man's form,
rushing from I knew not where, shot by me and fell at Mr. Gryce's feet
shrieking out:

"It is a lie! a lie! Mary Leavenworth is innocent as a babe unborn. I am
the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth. I! I! I!"

It was Trueman Harwell.



XXXVII. CULMINATION


    "Saint seducing gold."
        --Romeo and Juliet.

    "When our actions do not,
     Our fears do make us traitors."
        --Macbeth.

I NEVER saw such a look of mortal triumph on the face of a man as that
which crossed the countenance of the detective.

"Well," said he, "this is unexpected, but not wholly unwelcome. I am
truly glad to learn that Miss Leavenworth is innocent; but I must hear
some few more particulars before I shall be satisfied. Get up,
Mr. Harwell, and explain yourself. If you are the murderer of Mr.
Leavenworth, how comes it that things look so black against everybody
but yourself?"

But in the hot, feverish eyes which sought him from the writhing form at
his feet, there was mad anxiety and pain, but little explanation. Seeing
him making unavailing efforts to speak, I drew near.

"Lean on me," said I, lifting him to his feet.

His face, relieved forever from its mask of repression, turned towards
me with the look of a despairing spirit. "Save! save!" he gasped. "Save
her--Mary--they are sending a report--stop it!"

"Yes," broke in another voice. "If there is a man here who believes in
God and prizes woman's honor, let him stop the issue of that report."
And Henry Clavering, dignified as ever, but in a state of extreme
agitation, stepped into our midst through an open door at our right.

But at the sight of his face, the man in our arms quivered, shrieked,
and gave one bound that would have overturned Mr. Clavering, herculean
of frame as he was, had not Mr. Gryce interposed.

"Wait!" he cried; and holding back the secretary with one hand--where
was his rheumatism now!--he put the other in his pocket and drew thence
a document which he held up before Mr. Clavering. "It has not gone
yet," said he; "be easy. And you," he went on, turning towards Trueman
Harwell, "be quiet, or----"

His sentence was cut short by the man springing from his grasp. "Let me
go!" he shrieked. "Let me have my revenge on him who, in face of all I
have done for Mary Leavenworth, dares to call her his wife! Let me--"
But at this point he paused, his quivering frame stiffening into stone,
and his clutching hands, outstretched for his rival's throat, falling
heavily back. "Hark!" said he, glaring over Mr. Clavering's shoulder:
"it is she! I hear her! I feel her! She is on the stairs! she is at the
door! she--" a low, shuddering sigh of longing and despair finished the
sentence: the door opened, and Mary Leavenworth stood before us!

It was a moment to make young hairs turn gray. To see her face, so pale,
so haggard, so wild in its fixed horror, turned towards Henry Clavering,
to the utter ignoring of the real actor in this most horrible scene!
Trueman Harwell could not stand it.

"Ah, ah!" he cried; "look at her! cold, cold; not one glance for me,
though I have just drawn the halter from her neck and fastened it about
my own!"

And, breaking from the clasp of the man who in his jealous rage would
now have withheld him, he fell on his knees before Mary, clutching her
dress with frenzied hands. "You _shall_ look at me," he cried; "you
_shall_ listen to me! I will not lose body and soul for nothing. Mary,
they said you were in peril! I could not endure that thought, so I
uttered the truth,--yes, though I knew what the consequence would
be,--and all I want now is for you to say you believe me, when I swear
that I only meant to secure to you the fortune you so much desired; that
I never dreamed it would come to this; that it was because I loved you,
and hoped to win your love in return that I----"

But she did not seem to see him, did not seem to hear him. Her eyes were
fixed upon Henry Clavering with an awful inquiry in their depths, and
none but he could move her.

"You do not hear me!" shrieked the poor wretch. "Ice that you are, you
would not turn your head if I should call to you from the depths of
hell!"

But even this cry fell unheeded. Pushing her hands down upon his
shoulders as though she would sweep some impediment from her path, she
endeavored to advance. "Why is that man here?" she cried, indicating
her husband with one quivering hand. "What has he done that he should be
brought here to confront me at this awful time?"

'"I told her to come here to meet her uncle's murderer," whispered Mr.
Gryce into my ear.

But before I could reply to her, before Mr. Clavering himself could
murmur a word, the guilty wretch before her had started to his feet.

"Don't you know? then I will tell you. It is because these gentlemen,
chivalrous and honorable as they consider themselves, think that you,
the beauty and the Sybarite, committed with your own white hand the
deed of blood which has brought you freedom and fortune. Yes, yes, this
man"--turning and pointing at me--"friend as he has made himself out to
be, kindly and honorable as you have doubtless believed him, but who in
every look he has bestowed upon you, every word he has uttered in your
hearing during all these four horrible weeks, has been weaving a cord
for your neck--thinks you the assassin of your uncle, unknowing that a
man stood at your side ready to sweep half the world from your path if
that same white hand rose in bidding. That I----"

"You?" Ah! now she could see him: now she could hear him!

"Yes," clutching her robe again as she hastily recoiled; "didn't you
know it? When in that dreadful hour of your rejection by your uncle, you
cried aloud for some one to help you, didn't you know----"

"Don't!" she shrieked, bursting from him with a look of unspeakable
horror. "Don't say that! Oh!" she gasped, "is the mad cry of a stricken
woman for aid and sympathy the call for a murderer?" And turning away
in horror, she moaned: "Who that ever looks at me now will forget that
a man--such a man!--dared to think that, because I was in mortal
perplexity, I would accept the murder of my best friend as a relief from
it!" Her horror was unbounded. "Oh, what a chastisement for folly!" she
murmured. "What a punishment for the love of money which has always been
my curse!"

Henry Clavering could no longer restrain himself, leaping to her side,
he bent over her. "Was it nothing but folly, Mary? Are you guiltless of
any deeper wrong? Is there no link of complicity between you two? Have
you nothing on your soul but an inordinate desire to preserve your place
in your uncle's will, even at the risk of breaking my heart and wronging
your noble cousin? Are you innocent in this matter? Tell me!" placing
his hand on her head, he pressed it slowly back and gazed into her eyes;
then, without a word, took her to his breast and looked calmly around
him.

"She is innocent!" said he.

It was the uplifting of a stifling pall. No one in the room, unless it
was the wretched criminal shivering before us, but felt a sudden influx
of hope. Even Mary's own countenance caught a glow. "Oh!" she whispered,
withdrawing from his arms to look better into his face, "and is this the
man I have trifled with, injured, and tortured, till the very name of
Mary Leavenworth might well make him shudder? Is this he whom I married
in a fit of caprice, only to forsake and deny? Henry, do you declare
me innocent in face of all you have seen and heard; in face of that
moaning, chattering wretch before us, and my own quaking flesh and
evident terror; with the remembrance on your heart and in your mind of
the letter I wrote you the morning after the murder, in which I prayed
you to keep away from me, as I was in such deadly danger the least hint
given to the world that I had a secret to conceal would destroy me? Do
you, can you, will you, declare me innocent before God and the world?"

"I do," said he.

A light such as had never visited her face before passed slowly over it.
"Then God forgive me the wrong I have done this noble heart, for I can
never forgive myself! Wait!" said she, as he opened his lips. "Before I
accept any further tokens of your generous confidence, let me show you
what I am. You shall know the worst of the woman you have taken to your
heart. Mr. Raymond," she cried, turning towards me for the first time,
"in those days when, with such an earnest desire for my welfare (you see
I do not believe this man's insinuations), you sought to induce me to
speak out and tell all I knew concerning this dreadful deed, I did not
do it because of my selfish fears. I knew the case looked dark against
me. Eleanore had told me so. Eleanore herself--and it was the keenest
pang I had to endure--believed me guilty. She had her reasons. She knew
first, from the directed envelope she had found lying underneath my
uncle's dead body on the library table, that he had been engaged at the
moment of death in summoning his lawyer to make that change in his will
which would transfer my claims to her; secondly, that notwithstanding
my denial of the same, I had been down to his room the night before, for
she had heard my door open and my dress rustle as I passed out. But that
was not all; the key that every one felt to be a positive proof of guilt
wherever found, had been picked up by her from the floor of my room; the
letter written by Mr. Clavering to my uncle was found in my fire; and
the handkerchief which she had seen me take from the basket of clean
clothes, was produced at the inquest stained with pistol grease. I could
not account for these things. A web seemed tangled about my feet.
I could not stir without encountering some new toil. I knew I was
innocent; but if I failed to satisfy my cousin of this, how could I
hope to convince the general public, if once called upon to do so. Worse
still, if Eleanore, with every apparent motive for desiring long life
to our uncle, was held in such suspicion because of a few circumstantial
evidences against her, what would I not have to fear if these evidences
were turned against me, the heiress! The tone and manner of the juryman
at the inquest that asked who would be most benefited by my uncle's will
showed but too plainly. When, therefore, Eleanore, true to her heart's
generous instincts, closed her lips and refused to speak when speech
would have been my ruin, I let her do it, justifying myself with the
thought that she had deemed me capable of crime, and so must bear the
consequences. Nor, when I saw how dreadful these were likely to
prove, did I relent. Fear of the ignominy, suspense, and danger which
confession would entail sealed my lips. Only once did I hesitate. That
was when, in the last conversation we had, I saw that, notwithstanding
appearances, you believed in Eleanore's innocence, and the thought
crossed me you might be induced to believe in mine if I threw myself
upon your mercy. But just then Mr. Clavering came; and as in a flash I
seemed to realize what my future life would be, stained by suspicion,
and, instead of yielding to my impulse, went so far in the other
direction as to threaten Mr. Clavering with a denial of our marriage if
he approached me again till all danger was over.

"Yes, he will tell you that was my welcome to him when, with heart
and brain racked by long suspense, he came to my door for one word of
assurance that the peril I was in was not of my own making. That was the
greeting I gave him after a year of silence every moment of which was
torture to him. But he forgives me; I see it in his eyes; I hear it in
his accents; and you--oh, if in the long years to come you can forget
what I have made Eleanore suffer by my selfish fears; if with the shadow
of her wrong before you, you can by the grace of some sweet hope think
a little less hardly of me, do. As for this man--torture could not be
worse to me than this standing with him in the same room--let him
come forward and declare if I by look or word have given him reason to
believe I understood his passion, much less returned it."

"Why ask!" he gasped. "Don't you see it was your indifference which
drove me mad? To stand before you, to agonize after you, to follow you
with thoughts in every move you made; to know my soul was welded to
yours with bands of steel no fire could melt, no force destroy, no
strain dissever; to sleep under the same roof, sit at the same table,
and yet meet not so much as one look to show me you understood! It was
that which made my life a hell. I was determined you should understand.
If I had to leap into a pit of flame, you should know what I was, and
what my passion for you was. And you do. You comprehend it all now.
Shrink as you will from my presence, cower as you may to the weak man
you call husband, you can never forget the love of Trueman Harwell;
never forget that love, love, love, was the force which led me down into
your uncle's room that night, and lent me will to pull the trigger which
poured all the wealth you hold this day into your lap. Yes," he went on,
towering in his preternatural despair till even the noble form of Henry
Clavering looked dwarfed beside him, "every dollar that chinks from
your purse shall talk of me. Every gew-gaw which flashes on that haughty
head, too haughty to bend to me, shall shriek my name into your ears.
Fashion, pomp, luxury,--you will have them all; but till gold loses its
glitter and ease its attraction you will never forget the hand that gave
them to you!"

With a look whose evil triumph I cannot describe, he put his hand into
the arm of the waiting detective, and in another moment would have been
led from the room; when Mary, crushing down the swell of emotions that
was seething in her breast, lifted her head and said:

"No, Trueman Harwell; I cannot give you even that thought for your
comfort. Wealth so laden would bring nothing but torture. I cannot
accept the torture, so must release the wealth. From this day, Mary
Clavering owns nothing but what comes to her from the husband she has so
long and so basely wronged." And raising her hands to her ears, she tore
out the diamonds which hung there, and flung them at the feet of the
unfortunate man.

It was the final wrench of the rack. With a yell such as I never thought
to listen to from the lips of a man, he flung up his arms, while all the
lurid light of madness glared on his face. "And I have given my soul to
hell for a shadow!" he moaned, "for a shadow!"

"Well, that is the best day's work I ever did! Your congratulations,
Mr. Raymond, upon the success of the most daring game ever played in a
detective's office."

I looked at the triumphant countenance of Mr. Gryce in amazement. "What
do you mean?" I cried; "did you plan all this?"

"Did I plan it?" he repeated. "Could I stand here, seeing how things
have turned out, if I had not? Mr. Raymond, let us be comfortable. You
are a gentleman, but we can well shake hands over this. I have never
known such a satisfactory conclusion to a bad piece of business in all
my professional career."

We did shake hands, long and fervently, and then I asked him to explain
himself.

"Well," said he, "there has always been one thing that plagued me, even
in the very moment of my strongest suspicion against this woman, and
that was, the pistol-cleaning business. I could not reconcile it with
what I knew of womankind. I could not make it seem the act of a woman.
Did you ever know a woman who cleaned a pistol? No. They can fire them,
and do; but after firing them, they do not clean them. Now it is a
principle which every detective recognizes, that if of a hundred leading
circumstances connected with a crime, ninety-nine of these are acts
pointing to the suspected party with unerring certainty, but the
hundredth equally important act one which that person could not have
performed, the whole fabric of suspicion is destroyed. Recognizing this
principle, then, as I have said, I hesitated when it came to the point
of arrest. The chain was complete; the links were fastened; but one link
was of a different size and material from the rest; and in this argued a
break in the chain. I resolved to give her a final chance. Summoning Mr.
Clavering, and Mr. Harwell, two persons whom I had no reason to suspect,
but who were the only persons beside herself who could have committed
this crime, being the only persons of intellect who were in the house
or believed to be, at the time of the murder, I notified them separately
that the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth was not only found, but was
about to be arrested in my house, and that if they wished to hear
the confession which would be sure to follow, they might have the
opportunity of doing so by coming here at such an hour. They were both
too much interested, though for very different reasons, to refuse; and
I succeeded in inducing them to conceal themselves in the two rooms from
which you saw them issue, knowing that if either of them had committed
this deed, he had done it for the love of Mary Leavenworth, and
consequently could not hear her charged with crime, and threatened
with arrest, without betraying himself. I did not hope much from the
experiment; least of all did I anticipate that Mr. Harwell would prove
to be the guilty man--but live and learn, Mr. Raymond, live and learn."



XXXVIII. A FULL CONFESSION


    "Between the acting of a dreadful thing,
    And the first motion, all the interim is
    Like a phantasma or a hideous dream;
    The genius and the mortal instruments
    Are then in council; and the state of a man,
    Like to a little Kingdom, suffers then
    The nature of an insurrection."
        --Julius Caesar.

I AM not a bad man; I am only an intense one. Ambition, love, jealousy,
hatred, revenge--transitory emotions with some, are terrific passions
with me. To be sure, they are quiet and concealed ones, coiled serpents
that make no stir till aroused; but then, deadly in their spring and
relentless in their action. Those who have known me best have not known
this. My own mother was ignorant of it. Often and often have I heard
her say: "If Trueman only had more sensibility! If Trueman were not so
indifferent to everything! In short, if Trueman had more power in him!"

It was the same at school. No one understood me. They thought me meek;
called me Dough-face. For three years they called me this, then I turned
upon them. Choosing out their ringleader, I felled him to the ground,
laid him on his back, and stamped upon him. He was handsome before
my foot came down; afterwards--Well, it is enough he never called me
Dough-face again. In the store I entered soon after, I met with even
less appreciation. Regular at my work and exact in my performance of it,
they thought me a good machine and nothing more. What heart, soul, and
feeling could a man have who never sported, never smoked, and never
laughed? I could reckon up figures correctly, but one scarcely needed
heart or soul for that. I could even write day by day and month by month
without showing a flaw in my copy; but that only argued I was no more
than they intimated, a regular automaton. I let them think so, with the
certainty before me that they would one day change their minds as others
had done. The fact was, I loved nobody well enough, not even myself,
to care for any man's opinion. Life was well-nigh a blank to me; a dead
level plain that had to be traversed whether I would or not. And such
it might have continued to this day if I had never met Mary Leavenworth.
But when, some nine months since, I left my desk in the counting-house
for a seat in Mr. Leavenworth's library, a blazing torch fell into
my soul whose flame has never gone out, and never will, till the doom
before me is accomplished.

She was so beautiful! When, on that first evening, I followed my new
employer into the parlor, and saw this woman standing up before me
in her half-alluring, half-appalling charm, I knew, as by a lightning
flash, what my future would be if I remained in that house. She was
in one of her haughty moods, and bestowed upon me little more than a
passing glance. But her indifference made slight impression upon me
then. It was enough that I was allowed to stand in her presence and look
unrebuked upon her loveliness. To be sure, it was like gazing into the
flower-wreathed crater of an awakening volcano. Fear and fascination
were in each moment I lingered there; but fear and fascination made the
moment what it was, and I could not have withdrawn if I would.

And so it was always. Unspeakable pain as well as pleasure was in the
emotion with which I regarded her. Yet for all that I did not cease to
study her hour by hour and day by day; her smiles, her movement, her way
of turning her head or lifting her eyelids. I had a purpose in this. I
wished to knit her beauty so firmly into the warp and woof of my being
that nothing could ever serve to tear it away. For I saw then as plainly
as now that, coquette though she was, she would never stoop to me. No;
I might lie down at her feet and let her trample over me; she would not
even turn to see what it was she had stepped upon. I might spend days,
months, years, learning the alphabet of her wishes; she would not thank
me for my pains or even raise the lashes from her cheek to look at me as
I passed. I was nothing to her, could not be anything unless--and this
thought came slowly--I could in some way become her master.

Meantime I wrote at Mr. Leavenworth's dictation and pleased him. My
methodical ways were just to his taste. As for the other member of the
family, Miss Eleanore Leavenworth--she treated me just as one of her
proud but sympathetic nature might be expected to do. Not familiarly,
but kindly; not as a friend, but as a member of the household whom she
met every day at table, and who, as she or any one else could see, was
none too happy or hopeful.

Six months went by. I had learned two things; first, that Mary
Leavenworth loved her position as prospective heiress to a large fortune
above every other earthly consideration; and secondly, that she was in
the possession of a secret which endangered that position. What this
was, I had for some time no means of knowing. But when later I became
convinced it was one of love, I grew hopeful, strange as it may seem.
For by this time I had learned Mr. Leavenworth's disposition almost as
perfectly as that of his niece, and knew that in a matter of this kind
he would be uncompromising; and that in the clashing of these two wills
something might occur which would give me a hold upon her. The only
thing that troubled me was the fact that I did not know the name of the
man in whom she was interested. But chance soon favored me here. One
day--a month ago now--I sat down to open Mr. Leavenworth's mail as
usual. One letter--shall I ever forget it? ran thus:

"HOFFMAN HOUSE,

"March 1, 1876."

MR. HORATIO LEAVENWORTH:

"DEAR SIR,--You have a niece whom you love and trust, one, too, who
seems worthy of all the love and trust that you or any other man can
give her; so beautiful, so charming, so tender is she in face, form,
manner, and conversation. But, dear sir, every rose has its thorn, and
your rose is no exception to this rule. Lovely as she is, charming as
she is, tender as she is, she is not only capable of trampling on the
rights of one who trusted her, but of bruising the heart and breaking
the spirit of him to whom she owes all duty, honor, and observance.

"If you don't believe this, ask her to her cruel, bewitching face, who
and what is her humble servant, and yours.

"Henry Ritchie Clavering."

If a bombshell had exploded at my feet, or the evil one himself appeared
at my call, I would not have been more astounded. Not only was the name
signed to these remarkable words unknown to me, but the epistle itself
was that of one who felt himself to be her master: a position which, as
you know, I was myself aspiring to occupy. For a few minutes, then, I
stood a prey to feelings of the bitterest wrath and despair; then I grew
calm, realizing that with this letter in my possession I was virtually
the arbitrator of her destiny. Some men would have sought her there and
then and, by threatening to place it in her uncle's hand, won from her
a look of entreaty, if no more; but I--well, my plans went deeper than
that. I knew she would have to be in extremity before I could hope to
win her. She must feel herself slipping over the edge of the precipice
before she would clutch at the first thing offering succor. I decided
to allow the letter to pass into my employer's hands. But it had been
opened! How could I manage to give it to him in this condition without
exciting his suspicion? I knew of but one way; to let him see me open it
for what he would consider the first time. So, waiting till he came into
the room, I approached him with the letter, tearing off the end of the
envelope as I came. Opening it, I gave a cursory glance at its contents
and tossed it down on the table before him.

"That appears to be of a private character," said I, "though there is no
sign to that effect on the envelope."

He took it up while I stood there. At the first word he started, looked
at me, seemed satisfied from my expression that I had not read far
enough to realize its nature, and, whirling slowly around in his chair,
devoured the remainder in silence. I waited a moment, then withdrew to
my own desk. One minute, two minutes passed in silence; he was evidently
rereading the letter; then he hurriedly rose and left the room. As he
passed me I caught a glimpse of his face in the mirror. The expression I
saw there did not tend to lessen the hope that was rising in my breast.

By following him almost immediately up-stairs I ascertained that he
went directly to Mary's room, and when in a few hours later the family
collected around the dinner table, I perceived, almost without looking
up, that a great and insurmountable barrier had been raised between him
and his favorite niece.

Two days passed; days that were for me one long and unrelieved suspense.
Had Mr. Leavenworth answered that letter? Would it all end as it had
begun, without the appearance of the mysterious Clavering on the scene?
I could not tell.

Meanwhile my monotonous work went on, grinding my heart beneath its
relentless wheel. I wrote and wrote and wrote, till it seemed as if my
life blood went from me with every drop of ink I used. Always alert
and listening, I dared not lift my head or turn my eyes at any unusual
sound, lest I should seem to be watching. The third night I had a dream;
I have already told Mr. Raymond what it was, and hence will not repeat
it here. One correction, however, I wish to make in regard to it. In my
statement to him I declared that the face of the man whom I saw lift his
hand against my employer was that of Mr. Clavering. I lied when I said
this. The face seen by me in my dream was my own. It was that fact
which made it so horrible to me. In the crouching figure stealing warily
down-stairs, I saw as in a glass the vision of my own form. Otherwise my
account of the matter was true.

This vision had a tremendous effect upon me. Was it a premonition? a
forewarning of the way in which I was to win this coveted creature for
my own? Was the death of her uncle the bridge by which the impassable
gulf between us might be spanned? I began to think it might be; to
consider the possibilities which could make this the only path to
my elysium; even went so far as to picture her lovely face bending
gratefully towards me through the glare of a sudden release from some
emergency in which she stood. One thing was sure; if that was the way I
must go, I had at least been taught how to tread it; and all through the
dizzy, blurred day that followed, I saw, as I sat at my work, repeated
visions of that stealthy, purposeful figure stealing down the stairs
and entering with uplifted pistol into the unconscious presence of my
employer. I even found myself a dozen times that day turning my eyes
upon the door through which it was to come, wondering how long it would
be before my actual form would pause there. That the moment was at hand
I did not imagine. Even when I left him that night after drinking with
him the glass of sherry mentioned at the inquest, I had no idea the hour
of action was so near. But when, not three minutes after going upstairs,
I caught the sound of a lady's dress rustling through the hall, and
listening, heard Mary Leavenworth pass my door on her way to the
library, I realized that the fatal hour was come; that something
was going to be said or done in that room which would make this deed
necessary. What? I determined to ascertain. Casting about in my mind
for the means of doing so, I remembered that the ventilator running
up through the house opened first into the passage-way connecting Mr.
Leavenworth's bedroom and library, and, secondly, into the closet of
the large spare room adjoining mine. Hastily unlocking the door of
the communication between the rooms, I took my position in the closet.
Instantly the sound of voices reached my ears; all was open below, and
standing there, I was as much an auditor of what went on between Mary
and her uncle as if I were in the library itself. And what did I hear?
Enough to assure me my suspicions were correct; that it was a moment of
vital interest to her; that Mr. Leavenworth, in pursuance of a threat
evidently made some time since, was in the act of taking steps to change
his will, and that she had come to make an appeal to be forgiven her
fault and restored to his favor. What that fault was, I did not learn.
No mention was made of Mr. Clavering as her husband. I only heard her
declare that her action had been the result of impulse, rather than
love; that she regretted it, and desired nothing more than to be free
from all obligations to one she would fain forget, and be again to her
uncle what she was before she ever saw this man. I thought, fool that I
was, it was a mere engagement she was alluding to, and took the insanest
hope from these words; and when, in a moment later I heard her uncle
reply, in his sternest tone, that she had irreparably forfeited her
claims to his regard and favor, I did not need her short and bitter cry
of shame and disappointment, or that low moan for some one to help her,
for me to sound his death-knell in my heart. Creeping back to my own
room, I waited till I heard her reascend, then I stole forth. Calm as
I had ever been in my life, I went down the stairs just as I had seen
myself do in my dream, and knocking lightly at the library door, went
in. Mr. Leavenworth was sitting in his usual place writing.

"Excuse me," said I as he looked up, "I have lost my memorandum-book,
and think it possible I may have dropped it in the passage-way when I
went for the wine." He bowed, and I hurried past him into the closet.
Once there, I proceeded rapidly into the room beyond, procured the
pistol, returned, and almost before I realized what I was doing, had
taken up my position behind him, aimed, and fired. The result was what
you know. Without a groan his head fell forward on his hands, and Mary
Leavenworth was the virtual possessor of the thousands she coveted.

My first thought was to procure the letter he was writing. Approaching
the table, I tore it out from under his hands, looked at it, saw that
it was, as I expected, a summons to his lawyer, and thrust it into my
pocket, together with the letter from Mr. Clavering, which I perceived
lying spattered with blood on the table before me. Not till this was
done did I think of myself, or remember the echo which that low, sharp
report must have made in the house. Dropping the pistol at the side of
the murdered man, I stood ready to shriek to any one who entered that
Mr. Leavenworth had killed himself. But I was saved from committing such
a folly. The report had not been heard, or if so, had evidently failed
to create an alarm. No one came, and I was left to contemplate my
work undisturbed and decide upon the best course to be taken to avoid
detection. A moment's study of the wound made in his head by the
bullet convinced me of the impossibility of passing the affair off as
a suicide, or even the work of a burglar. To any one versed in such
matters it was manifestly a murder, and a most deliberate one. My one
hope, then, lay in making it as mysterious as it was deliberate, by
destroying all due to the motive and manner of the deed. Picking up the
pistol, I carried it into the other room with the intention of
cleaning it, but finding nothing there to do it with, came back for the
handkerchief I had seen lying on the floor at Mr. Leavenworth's feet. It
was Miss Eleanore's, but I did not know it till I had used it to clean
the barrel; then the sight of her initials in one corner so shocked me
I forgot to clean the cylinder, and only thought of how I could do
away with this evidence of her handkerchief having been employed for a
purpose so suspicious. Not daring to carry it from the room, I sought
for means to destroy it; but finding none, compromised the matter by
thrusting it deep down behind the cushion of one of the chairs, in the
hope of being able to recover and burn it the next day. This done, I
reloaded the pistol, locked it up, and prepared to leave the room.
But here the horror which usually follows such deeds struck me like a
thunderbolt and made me for the first time uncertain in my action. I
locked the door on going out, something I should never have done. Not
till I reached the top of the stairs did I realize my folly; and then it
was too late, for there before me, candle in hand, and surprise written
on every feature of her face, stood Hannah, one of the servants, looking
at me.

"Lor, sir, where have you been?" she cried, but strange to say, in a
low tone. "You look as if you had seen a ghost." And her eyes turned
suspiciously to the key which I held in my hand.

I felt as if some one had clutched me round the throat. Thrusting the
key into my pocket, I took a step towards her. "I will tell you what I
have seen if you will come down-stairs," I whispered; "the ladies will
be disturbed if we talk here," and smoothing my brow as best I could,
I put out my hand and drew her towards me. What my motive was I hardly
knew; the action was probably instinctive; but when I saw the look which
came into her face as I touched her, and the alacrity with which she
prepared to follow me, I took courage, remembering the one or two
previous tokens I had had of this girl's unreasonable susceptibility to
my influence; a susceptibility which I now felt could be utilized and
made to serve my purpose.

Taking her down to the parlor floor, I drew her into the depths of
the great drawing-room, and there told her in the least alarming
way possible what had happened to Mr. Leavenworth. She was of course
intensely agitated, but she did not scream;--the novelty of her position
evidently bewildering her--and, greatly relieved, I went on to say that
I did not know who committed the deed, but that folks would declare it
was I if they knew I had been seen by her on the stairs with the library
key in my hand. "But I won't tell," she whispered, trembling violently
in her fright and eagerness. "I will keep it to myself. I will say I
didn't see anybody." But I soon convinced her that she could never keep
her secret if the police once began to question her, and, following
up my argument with a little cajolery, succeeded after a long while in
winning her consent to leave the house till the storm should be blown
over. But that given, it was some little time before I could make her
comprehend that she must depart at once and without going back after her
things. Not till I brightened up her wits by a promise to marry her some
day if she only obeyed me now, did she begin to look the thing in
the face and show any evidence of the real mother wit she evidently
possessed. "Mrs. Belden would take me in," said she, "if I could only
get to R----. She takes everybody in who asks, her; and she would
keep me, too, if I told her Miss Mary sent me. But I can't get there
to-night."

I immediately set to work to convince her that she could. The midnight
train did not leave the city for a half-hour yet, and the distance to
the depot could be easily walked by her in fifteen minutes. But she had
no money! I easily supplied that. And she was afraid she couldn't find
her way! I entered into minutest directions. She still hesitated, but
at length consented to go, and with some further understanding of the
method I was to employ in communicating with her, we went down-stairs.
There we found a hat and shawl of the cook's which I put on her, and in
another moment we were in the carriage yard. "Remember, you are to say
nothing of what has occurred, no matter what happens," I whispered in
parting injunction as she turned to leave me. "Remember, you are to come
and marry me some day," she murmured in reply, throwing her arms about
my neck. The movement was sudden, and it was probably at this time she
dropped the candle she had unconsciously held clenched in her hand till
now. I promised her, and she glided out of the gate.

Of the dreadful agitation that followed the disappearance of this girl
I can give no better idea than by saying I not only committed the
additional error of locking up the house on my re-entrance, but omitted
to dispose of the key then in my pocket by flinging it into the street
or dropping it in the hall as I went up. The fact is, I was so absorbed
by the thought of the danger I stood in from this girl, I forgot
everything else. Hannah's pale face, Hannah's look of terror, as she
turned from my side and flitted down the street, were continually before
me. I could not escape them; the form of the dead man lying below was
less vivid. It was as though I were tied in fancy to this woman of the
white face fluttering down the midnight streets. That she would fail in
something--come back or be brought back--that I should find her standing
white and horror-stricken on the front steps when I went down in the
morning, was like a nightmare to me. I began to think no other result
possible; that she never would or could win her way unchallenged to that
little cottage in a distant village; that I had but sent a trailing flag
of danger out into the world with this wretched girl;--danger that would
come back to me with the first burst of morning light!

But even those thoughts faded after a while before the realization
of the peril I was in as long as the key and papers remained in my
possession. How to get rid of them! I dared not leave my room again,
or open my window. Some one might see me and remember it. Indeed I was
afraid to move about in my room. Mr. Leavenworth might hear me. Yes, my
morbid terror had reached that point--I was fearful of one whose ears I
myself had forever closed, imagined him in his bed beneath and wakeful
to the least sound.

But the necessity of doing something with these evidences of guilt
finally overcame this morbid anxiety, and drawing the two letters from
my pocket--I had not yet undressed--I chose out the most dangerous of
the two, that written by Mr. Leavenworth himself, and, chewing it till
it was mere pulp, threw it into a corner; but the other had blood on it,
and nothing, not even the hope of safety, could induce me to put it
to my lips. I was forced to lie with it clenched in my hand, and the
flitting image of Hannah before my eyes, till the slow morning broke. I
have heard it said that a year in heaven seems like a day; I can easily
believe it. I know that an hour in hell seems an eternity!

But with daylight came hope. Whether it was that the sunshine glancing
on the wall made me think of Mary and all I was ready to do for her
sake, or whether it was the mere return of my natural stoicism in the
presence of actual necessity, I cannot say. I only know that I arose
calm and master of myself. The problem of the letter and key had solved
itself also. Hide them? I would not try to! Instead of that I would
put them in plain sight, trusting to that very fact for their being
overlooked. Making the letter up into lighters, I carried them into the
spare room and placed them in a vase. Then, taking the key in my hand,
went down-stairs, intending to insert it in the lock of the library door
as I went by. But Miss Eleanore descending almost immediately behind me
made this impossible. I succeeded, however, in thrusting it, without
her knowledge, among the filagree work of the gas-fixture in the
second hall, and thus relieved, went down into the breakfast room as
self-possessed a man as ever crossed its threshold. Mary was there,
looking exceedingly pale and disheartened, and as I met her eye, which
for a wonder turned upon me as I entered, I could almost have laughed,
thinking of the deliverance that had come to her, and of the time when I
should proclaim myself to be the man who had accomplished it.

Of the alarm that speedily followed, and my action at that time and
afterwards, I need not speak in detail. I behaved just as I would have
done if I had had no hand in the murder. I even forbore to touch the key
or go to the spare room, or make any movement which I was not willing
all the world should see. For as things stood, there was not a shadow
of evidence against me in the house; neither was I, a hard-working,
uncomplaining secretary, whose passion for one of his employer's nieces
was not even mistrusted by the lady herself, a person to be suspected
of the crime which threw him out of a fair situation. So I performed
all the duties of my position, summoning the police, and going for Mr.
Veeley, just as I would have done if those hours between me leaving
Mr. Leavenworth for the first time and going down to breakfast in the
morning had been blotted from my consciousness.

And this was the principle upon which I based my action at the inquest.
Leaving that half-hour and its occurrences out of the question, I
resolved to answer such questions as might be put me as truthfully as
I could; the great fault with men situated as I was usually being that
they lied too much, thus committing themselves on unessential matters.
But alas, in thus planning for my own safety, I forgot one thing,
and that was the dangerous position in which I should thus place Mary
Leavenworth as the one benefited by the crime. Not till the inference
was drawn by a juror, from the amount of wine found in Mr. Leavenworth's
glass in the morning, that he had come to his death shortly after my
leaving him, did I realize what an opening I had made for suspicion in
her direction by admitting that I had heard a rustle on the stair a few
minutes after going up. That all present believed it to have been made
by Eleanore, did not reassure me. She was so completely disconnected
with the crime I could not imagine suspicion holding to her for an
instant. But Mary--If a curtain had been let down before me, pictured
with the future as it has since developed, I could not have seen more
plainly what her position would be, if attention were once directed
towards her. So, in the vain endeavor to cover up my blunder, I began
to lie. Forced to admit that a shadow of disagreement had been lately
visible between Mr. Leavenworth and one of his nieces, I threw the
burden of it upon Eleanore, as the one best able to bear it. The
consequences were more serious than I anticipated. Direction had been
given to suspicion which every additional evidence that now came up
seemed by some strange fatality to strengthen. Not only was it proved
that Mr. Leavenworth's own pistol had been used in the assassination,
and that too by a person then in the house, but I myself was brought
to acknowledge that Eleanore had learned from me, only a little while
before, how to load, aim, and fire this very pistol--a coincidence
mischievous enough to have been of the devil's own making.

Seeing all this, my fear of what the ladies would admit when questioned
became very great. Let them in their innocence acknowledge that, upon my
ascent, Mary had gone to her uncle's room for the purpose of persuading
him not to carry into effect the action he contemplated, and what
consequences might not ensue! I was in a torment of apprehension.
But events of which I had at that time no knowledge had occurred to
influence them. Eleanore, with some show of reason, as it seems, not
only suspected her cousin of the crime, but had informed her of the
fact, and Mary, overcome with terror at finding there was more or
less circumstantial evidence supporting the suspicion, decided to deny
whatever told against herself, trusting to Eleanore's generosity not to
be contradicted. Nor was her confidence misplaced. Though, by the course
she took, Eleanore was forced to deepen the prejudice already rife
against herself, she not only forbore to contradict her cousin, but when
a true answer would have injured her, actually refused to return any,
a lie being something she could not utter, even to save one especially
endeared to her.

This conduct of hers had one effect upon me. It aroused my admiration
and made me feel that here was a woman worth helping if assistance could
be given without danger to myself. Yet I doubt if my sympathy would have
led me into doing anything, if I had not perceived, by the stress laid
upon certain well-known matters, that actual danger hovered about us
all while the letter and key remained in the house. Even before the
handkerchief was produced, I had made up my mind to attempt their
destruction; but when that was brought up and shown, I became so alarmed
I immediately rose and, making my way under some pretence or other to
the floors above, snatched the key from the gas-fixture, the
lighters from the vase, and hastening with them down the hall to Mary
Leavenworth's room, went in under the expectation of finding a fire
there in which to destroy them. But, to my heavy disappointment, there
were only a few smoldering ashes in the grate, and, thwarted in my
design, I stood hesitating what to do, when I heard some one coming
up-stairs. Alive to the consequences of being found in that room at that
time, I cast the lighters into the grate and started for the door. But
in the quick move I made, the key flew from my hand and slid under a
chair. Aghast at the mischance, I paused, but the sound of approaching
steps increasing, I lost all control over myself and fled from the room.
And indeed I had no time to lose. I had barely reached my own door when
Eleanore Leavenworth, followed by two servants, appeared at the top of
the staircase and proceeded towards the room I had just left. The sight
reassured me; she would see the key, and take some means of disposing
of it; and indeed I always supposed her to have done so, for no further
word of key or letter ever came to my ears. This may explain why the
questionable position in which Eleanore soon found herself awakened in
me no greater anxiety. I thought the suspicions of the police rested
upon nothing more tangible than the peculiarity of her manner at the
inquest and the discovery of her handkerchief on the scene of the
tragedy. I did not know they possessed what might be called absolute
proof of her connection with the crime. But if I had, I doubt if my
course would have been any different. Mary's peril was the one thing
capable of influencing me, and she did not appear to be in peril. On the
contrary, every one, by common consent, seemed to ignore all appearance
of guilt on her part. If Mr. Gryce, whom I soon learned to fear, had
given one sign of suspicion, or Mr. Raymond, whom I speedily recognized
as my most persistent though unconscious foe, had betrayed the least
distrust of her, I should have taken warning. But they did not, and,
lulled into a false security by their manner, I let the days go by
without suffering any fears on her account. But not without many
anxieties for myself. Hannah's existence precluded all sense of personal
security. Knowing the determination of the police to find her, I trod
the verge of an awful suspense continually.

Meantime the wretched certainty was forcing itself upon me that I had
lost, instead of gained, a hold on Mary Leavenworth. Not only did she
evince the utmost horror of the deed which had made her mistress of
her uncle's wealth, but, owing, as I believed, to the influence of Mr.
Raymond, soon gave evidence that she was losing, to a certain extent,
the characteristics of mind and heart which had made me hopeful of
winning her by this deed of blood. This revelation drove me almost
insane. Under the terrible restraint forced upon me, I walked my weary
round in a state of mind bordering on frenzy. Many and many a time have
I stopped in my work, wiped my pen and laid it down with the idea that
I could not repress myself another moment, but I have always taken it
up again and gone on with my task. Mr. Raymond has sometimes shown his
wonder at my sitting in my dead employer's chair. Great heaven! it was
my only safeguard. By keeping the murder constantly before my mind, I
was enabled to restrain myself from any inconsiderate action.

At last there came a time when my agony could be no longer suppressed.
Going down the stairs one evening with Mr. Raymond, I saw a strange
gentleman standing in the reception room, looking at Mary Leavenworth
in a way that would have made my blood boil, even if I had not heard him
whisper these words: "But you are my wife, and know it, whatever you may
say or do!"

It was the lightning-stroke of my life. After what I had done to make
her mine, to hear another claim her as already his own, was stunning,
maddening! It forced a demonstration from me. I had either to yell in
my fury or deal the man beneath some tremendous blow in my hatred. I did
not dare to shriek, so I struck the blow. Demanding his name from Mr.
Raymond, and hearing that it was, as I expected, Clavering, I flung
caution, reason, common sense, all to the winds, and in a moment of fury
denounced him as the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth.

The next instant I would have given worlds to recall my words. What had
I done but drawn attention to myself in thus accusing a man against whom
nothing could of course be proved! But recall now was impossible.
So, after a night of thought, I did the next best thing: gave a
superstitious reason for my action, and so restored myself to my former
position without eradicating from the mind of Mr. Raymond that vague
doubt of the man which my own safety demanded. But I had no intention of
going any further, nor should I have done so if I had not observed that
for some reason Mr. Raymond was willing to suspect Mr. Clavering. But
that once seen, revenge took possession of me, and I asked myself if the
burden of this crime could be thrown on this man. Still I do not believe
that any active results would have followed this self-questioning if I
had not overheard a whispered conversation between two of the servants,
in which I learned that Mr. Clavering had been seen to enter the
house on the night of the murder, but was not seen to leave it. That
determined me. With such a fact for a starting-point, what might I not
hope to accomplish? Hannah alone stood in my way. While she remained
alive I saw nothing but ruin before me. I made up my mind to destroy
her and satisfy my hatred of Mr. Clavering at one blow. But how? By what
means could I reach her without deserting my post, or make away with
her without exciting fresh suspicion? The problem seemed insolvable;
but Trueman Harwell had not played the part of a machine so long without
result. Before I had studied the question a day, light broke upon it,
and I saw that the only way to accomplish my plans was to inveigle her
into destroying herself.

No sooner had this thought matured than I hastened to act upon it.
Knowing the tremendous risk I ran, I took every precaution. Locking
myself up in my room, I wrote her a letter in printed characters--she
having distinctly told me she could not read writing--in which I played
upon her ignorance, foolish fondness, and Irish superstition, by telling
her I dreamed of her every night and wondered if she did of me; was
afraid she didn't, so enclosed her a little charm, which, if she would
use according to directions, would give her the most beautiful visions.
These directions were for her first to destroy my letter by burning it,
next to take in her hand the packet I was careful to enclose, swallow
the powder accompanying it, and go to bed. The powder was a deadly dose
of poison and the packet was, as you know, a forged confession falsely
criminating Henry Clavering. Enclosing all these in an envelope in
the corner of which I had marked a cross, I directed it, according to
agreement, to Mrs. Belden, and sent it.

Then followed the greatest period of suspense I had yet endured. Though
I had purposely refrained from putting my name to the letter, I felt
that the chances of detection were very great. Let her depart in the
least particular from the course I had marked out for her, and fatal
results must ensue. If she opened the enclosed packet, mistrusted the
powder, took Mrs. Belden into her confidence, or even failed to burn my
letter, all would be lost. I could not be sure of her or know the result
of my scheme except through the newspapers. Do you think I kept watch
of the countenances about me? devoured the telegraphic news, or started
when the bell rang? And when, a few days since, I read that short
paragraph in the paper which assured me that my efforts had at least
produced the death of the woman I feared, do you think I experienced any
sense of relief?

But of that why speak? In six hours had come the summons from Mr. Gryce,
and--let these prison walls, this confession itself, tell the rest. I am
no longer capable of speech or action.



XXXIX. THE OUTCOME OF A GREAT CRIME


    "Leave her to Heaven
    And to those thorns that
    In her bosom lodge
    To prick and sting her."
        --Hamlet

    "For she is wise, if I can judge of her;
    And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true;
    And true she is, as she has proved herself;
    And therefore like herself, wise, fair, and true,
    Shall she be placed in my constant soul."
        --Merchant of Venice.

"OH, ELEANORE!" I cried, as I made my way into her presence, "are you
prepared for very good news? News that will brighten these pale cheeks
and give the light back to these eyes, and make life hopeful and sweet
to you once more? Tell me," I urged, stooping over her where she sat,
for she looked ready to faint.

"I don't know," she faltered; "I fear your idea of good news and mine
may differ. No news can be good but----"

"What?" I asked, taking her hands in mine with a smile that ought to
have reassured her, it was one of such profound happiness. "Tell me; do
not be afraid."

But she was. Her dreadful burden had lain upon her so long it had become
a part of her being. How could she realize it was founded on a mistake;
that she had no cause to fear the past, present, or future?

But when the truth was made known to her; when, with all the fervor and
gentle tact of which I was capable, I showed her that her suspicions had
been groundless, and that Trueman Harwell, and not Mary, was accountable
for the evidences of crime which had led her into attributing to her
cousin the guilt of her uncle's death, her first words were a prayer to
be taken to the one she had so wronged. "Take me to her! Oh, take me to
her! I cannot breathe or think till I have begged pardon of her on my
knees. Oh, my unjust accusation! My unjust accusation!"

Seeing the state she was in, I deemed it wise to humor her. So,
procuring a carriage, I drove with her to her cousin's home.

"Mary will spurn me; she will not even look at me; and she will be
right!" she cried, as we rolled away up the avenue. "An outrage like
this can never be forgiven. But God knows I thought myself justified in
my suspicions. If you knew--"

"I do know," I interposed. "Mary acknowledges that the circumstantial
evidence against her was so overwhelming, she was almost staggered
herself, asking if she could be guiltless with such proofs against her.
But----"

"Wait, oh, wait; did Mary say that?"

"Yes."

"To-day?"

"Yes."

"Mary must be changed."

I did not answer; I wanted her to see for herself the extent of that
change. But when, in a few minutes later, the carriage stopped and I
hurried with her into the house which had been the scene of so much
misery, I was hardly prepared for the difference in her own countenance
which the hall light revealed. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks were
brilliant, her brow lifted and free from shadow; so quickly does the ice
of despair melt in the sunshine of hope.

Thomas, who had opened the door, was sombrely glad to see his mistress
again. "Miss Leavenworth is in the drawing-room," said he.

I nodded, then seeing that Eleanore could scarcely move for agitation,
asked her whether she would go in at once, or wait till she was more
composed.

"I will go in at once; I cannot wait." And slipping from my grasp, she
crossed the hall and laid her hand upon the drawing-room curtain, when
it was suddenly lifted from within and Mary stepped out.

"Mary!"

"Eleanore!"

The ring of those voices told everything. I did not need to glance their
way to know that Eleanore had fallen at her cousin's feet, and that
her cousin had affrightedly lifted her. I did not need to hear: "My sin
against you is too great; you cannot forgive me!" followed by the low:
"My shame is great enough to lead me to forgive anything!" to know that
the lifelong shadow between these two had dissolved like a cloud, and
that, for the future, bright days of mutual confidence and sympathy were
in store.

Yet when, a half-hour or so later, I heard the door of the reception
room, into which I had retired, softly open, and looking up, saw Mary
standing on the threshold, with the light of true humility on her face,
I own that I was surprised at the softening which had taken place in
her haughty beauty. "Blessed is the shame that purifies," I inwardly
murmured, and advancing, held out my hand with a respect and sympathy I
never thought to feel for her again.

The action seemed to touch her. Blushing deeply, she came and stood by
my side. "I thank you," said she. "I have much to be grateful for; how
much I never realized till to-night; but I cannot speak of it now. What
I wish is for you to come in and help me persuade Eleanore to accept
this fortune from my hands. It is hers, you know; was willed to her, or
would have been if--"

"Wait," said I, in the trepidation which this appeal to me on such a
subject somehow awakened. "Have you weighed this matter well? Is it your
determined purpose to transfer your fortune into your cousin's hands?"

Her look was enough without the low, "Ah, how can you ask me?" that
followed it.

Mr. Clavering was sitting by the side of Eleanore when we entered the
drawing-room. He immediately rose, and drawing me to one side, earnestly
said:

"Before the courtesies of the hour pass between us, Mr. Raymond, allow
me to tender you my apology. You have in your possession a document
which ought never to have been forced upon you. Founded upon a mistake,
the act was an insult which I bitterly regret. If, in consideration of
my mental misery at that time, you can pardon it, I shall feel forever
indebted to you; if not----"

"Mr. Clavering, say no more. The occurrences of that day belong to
a past which I, for one, have made up my mind to forget as soon as
possible. The future promises too richly for us to dwell on bygone
miseries."

And with a look of mutual understanding and friendship we hastened to
rejoin the ladies.

Of the conversation that followed, it is only necessary to state the
result. Eleanore, remaining firm in her refusal to accept property so
stained by guilt, it was finally agreed upon that it should be devoted
to the erection and sustainment of some charitable institution of
magnitude sufficient to be a recognized benefit to the city and its
unfortunate poor. This settled, our thoughts returned to our friends,
especially to Mr. Veeley.

"He ought to know," said Mary. "He has grieved like a father over us."
And, in her spirit of penitence, she would have undertaken the unhappy
task of telling him the truth.

But Eleanore, with her accustomed generosity, would not hear of this.
"No, Mary," said she; "you have suffered enough. Mr. Raymond and I will
go."

And leaving them there, with the light of growing hope and confidence on
their faces, we went out again into the night, and so into a dream from
which I have never waked, though the shine of her dear eyes have been
now the load-star of my life for many happy, happy months.

<<<SNOWLLM-BENCH-SPLIT>>>
"No, indeed. Bought years ago in England--the coat in London, the
trousers in Bath, on a motor tour. Cost something like twelve shillings.
Awfully cheap. They wear them for cricket."

That was a wrong move, of course. Sidney must hear about England; and
she marveled politely, in view of his poverty, about his being there.
Poor Le Moyne floundered in a sea of mendacity, rose to a truth here and
there, clutched at luncheon, and achieved safety at last.

"To think," said Sidney, "that you have really been across the ocean! I
never knew but one person who had been abroad. It is Dr. Max Wilson."

Back again to Dr. Max! Le Moyne, unpacking sandwiches from a basket, was
aroused by a sheer resentment to an indiscretion.

"You like this Wilson chap pretty well, don't you?"

"What do you mean?"

"You talk about him rather a lot."

This was sheer recklessness, of course. He expected fury, annihilation.
He did not look up, but busied himself with the luncheon. When the
silence grew oppressive, he ventured to glance toward her. She was
leaning forward, her chin cupped in her palms, staring out over the
valley that stretched at their feet.

"Don't speak to me for a minute or two," she said. "I'm thinking over
what you have just said."

Manlike, having raised the issue, K. would have given much to evade it.
Not that he had owned himself in love with Sidney. Love was not for
him. But into his loneliness and despair the girl had came like a ray of
light. She typified that youth and hope that he had felt slipping away
from him. Through her clear eyes he was beginning to see a new world.
Lose her he must, and that he knew; but not this way.

Down through the valley ran a shallow river, making noisy pretensions to
both depth and fury. He remembered just such a river in the Tyrol, with
this same Wilson on a rock, holding the hand of a pretty Austrian girl,
while he snapped the shutter of a camera. He had that picture somewhere
now; but the girl was dead, and, of the three, Wilson
<<<SNOWLLM-BENCH-SPLIT>>>
He sucked calmly at his dead pipe.

"Katie has a new prescription--recipe--for bread. It has more bread and
fewer air-holes. One cake of yeast--"

Sidney sprang to her feet.

"It's perfectly terrible!" she cried. "Because you rent a room in
this house is no reason why you should give up your personality and
your--intelligence. Not but that it's good for you. But Katie has
made bread without masculine assistance for a good many years, and if
Christine can't decide about her own veil she'd better not get married.
Mother says you water the flowers every evening, and lock up the house
before you go to bed. I--I never meant you to adopt the family!"

K. removed his pipe and gazed earnestly into the bowl.

"Bill Taft has had kittens under the porch," he said. "And the
groceryman has been sending short weight. We've bought scales now, and
weigh everything."

"You are evading the question."

"Dear child, I am doing these things because I like to do them. For--for
some time I've been floating, and now I've got a home. Every time I
lock up the windows at night, or cut a picture out of a magazine as a
suggestion to your Aunt Harriet, it's an anchor to windward."

Sidney gazed helplessly at his imperturbable face. He seemed older than
she had recalled him: the hair over his ears was almost white. And yet,
he was just thirty. That was Palmer Howe's age, and Palmer seemed like a
boy. But he held himself more erect than he had in the first days of his
occupancy of the second-floor front.

"And now," he said cheerfully, "what about yourself? You've lost a lot
of illusions, of course, but perhaps you've gained ideals. That's a
step."

"Life," observed Sidney, with the wisdom of two weeks out in the world,
"life is a terrible thing, K. We think we've got it, and--it's got us."

"Undoubtedly."

"When I think of how simple I used to think it all was! One grew up and
got married, and--and perhaps had children. And when one got very
old, one d
<<<SNOWLLM-BENCH-SPLIT>>>
"Much you care about that. Go and ride with your wife," said the girl,
and flung away from him.

The last few weeks had filled out her thin figure, but she still bore
traces of her illness. Her short hair was curled over her head. She
looked curiously boyish, almost sexless.

Because she saw him wince when she mentioned Christine, her ill temper
increased. She showed her teeth.

"You get out of here," she said suddenly. "I didn't ask you to come
back. I don't want you."

"Good Heavens, Grace! You always knew I would have to marry some day."

"I was sick; I nearly died. I didn't hear any reports of you hanging
around the hospital to learn how I was getting along."

He laughed rather sheepishly.

"I had to be careful. You know that as well as I do. I know half the
staff there. Besides, one of--" He hesitated over his wife's name. "A
girl I know very well was in the training-school. There would have been
the devil to pay if I'd as much as called up."

"You never told me you were going to get married."

Cornered, he slipped an arm around her. But she shook him off.

"I meant to tell you, honey; but you got sick. Anyhow, I--I hated to
tell you, honey."

He had furnished the flat for her. There was a comfortable feeling of
coming home about going there again. And, now that the worst minute of
their meeting was over, he was visibly happier. But Grace continued to
stand eyeing him somberly.

"I've got something to tell you," she said. "Don't have a fit, and don't
laugh. If you do, I'll--I'll jump out of the window. I've got a place in
a store. I'm going to be straight, Palmer."

"Good for you!"

He meant it. She was a nice girl and he was fond of her. The other was
a dog's life. And he was not unselfish about it. She could not belong to
him. He did not want her to belong to any one else.

"One of the nurses in the hospital, a Miss Page, has got me something to
do at Lipton and Homburg's. I am going on for the January white sale. If
I make good they will keep me."

He
<<<SNOWLLM-BENCH-SPLIT>>>
"I am not leaving you," she told him. "I don't even know that I am
blaming you. But I am not going to have anything to do with it, and
that's flat."

So it happened that K., making a spring pilgrimage to see Tillie,
stopped astounded in the road. The weather was warm, and he carried
his Norfolk coat over his arm. The little house was bustling; a dozen
automobiles were parked in the barnyard. The bar was crowded, and a
barkeeper in a white coat was mixing drinks with the casual indifference
of his kind. There were tables under the trees on the lawn, and a new
sign on the gate.

Even Schwitter bore a new look of prosperity. Over his schooner of beer
K. gathered something of the story.

"I'm not proud of it, Mr. Le Moyne. I've come to do a good many things
the last year or so that I never thought I would do. But one thing leads
to another. First I took Tillie away from her good position, and after
that nothing went right. Then there were things coming on"--he looked at
K. anxiously--"that meant more expense. I would be glad if you wouldn't
say anything about it at Mrs. McKee's."

"I'll not speak of it, of course."

It was then, when K. asked for Tillie, that Mr. Schwitter's unhappiness
became more apparent.

"She wouldn't stand for it," he said. "She moved out the day I furnished
the rooms upstairs and got the piano."

"Do you mean she has gone?"

"As far as the barn. She wouldn't stay in the house. I--I'll take you
out there, if you would like to see her."

K. shrewdly surmised that Tillie would prefer to see him alone, under
the circumstances.

"I guess I can find her," he said, and rose from the little table.

"If you--if you can say anything to help me out, sir, I'd appreciate it.
Of course, she understands how I am driven. But--especially if you would
tell her that the Street doesn't know--"

"I'll do all I can," K. promised, and followed the path to the barn.

Tillie received him with a cert
<<<SNOWLLM-BENCH-SPLIT>>>
The men in the garage were talking.

"To Schwitter's, of course," one of them grumbled. "We might as well go
out of business."

"There's no money in running a straight place. Schwitter and half a
dozen others are getting rich."

"That was Wilson, the surgeon in town. He cut off my brother-in-law's
leg--charged him as much as if he had grown a new one for him. He used
to come here. Now he goes to Schwitter's, like the rest. Pretty girl he
had with him. You can bet on Wilson."

So Max Wilson was taking Sidney to Schwitter's, making her the butt of
garage talk! The smiles of the men were evil. Joe's hands grew cold, his
head hot. A red mist spread between him and the line of electric lights.
He knew Schwitter's, and he knew Wilson.

He flung himself into his car and threw the throttle open. The car
jerked, stalled.

"You can't start like that, son," one of the men remonstrated. "You let
'er in too fast."

"You go to hell!" Joe snarled, and made a second ineffectual effort.

Thus adjured, the men offered neither further advice nor assistance. The
minutes went by in useless cranking--fifteen. The red mist grew heavier.
Every lamp was a danger signal. But when K., growing uneasy, came out
into the yard, the engine had started at last. He was in time to see Joe
run his car into the road and turn it viciously toward Schwitter's.

Carlotta's nearness was having its calculated effect on Max Wilson. His
spirits rose as the engine, marking perfect time, carried them along the
quiet roads.

Partly it was reaction--relief that she should be so reasonable, so
complaisant--and a sort of holiday spirit after the day's hard work.
Oddly enough, and not so irrational as may appear, Sidney formed a
part of the evening's happiness--that she loved him; that, back in the
lecture-room, eyes and even mind on the lecturer, her heart was with
him.

So, with Sidney the basis of his happiness, he made the mo
<<<SNOWLLM-BENCH-SPLIT>>>
The old doubts came back.

And now came a question that demanded immediate answer. Wilson would
be out of commission for several months, probably. He was gaining, but
slowly. And he wanted K. to take over his work.

"Why not?" he demanded, half irritably. "The secret is out. Everybody
knows who you are. You're not thinking about going back to that
ridiculous gas office, are you?"

"I had some thought of going to Cuba."

"I'm damned if I understand you. You've done a marvelous thing; I lie
here and listen to the staff singing your praises until I'm sick of your
name! And now, because a boy who wouldn't have lived anyhow--"

"That's not it," K. put in hastily. "I know all that. I guess I could do
it and get away with it as well as the average. All that deters me--I've
never told you, have I, why I gave up before?"

Wilson was propped up in his bed. K. was walking restlessly about the
room, as was his habit when troubled.

"I've heard the gossip; that's all."

"When you recognized me that night on the balcony, I told you I'd lost
my faith in myself, and you said the whole affair had been gone over
at the State Society. As a matter of fact, the Society knew of only two
cases. There had been three."

"Even at that--"

"You know what I always felt about the profession, Max. We went into
that more than once in Berlin. Either one's best or nothing. I had done
pretty well. When I left Lorch and built my own hospital, I hadn't
a doubt of myself. And because I was getting results I got a lot of
advertising. Men began coming to the clinics. I found I was making
enough out of the patients who could pay to add a few free wards. I want
to tell you now, Wilson, that the opening of those free wards was the
greatest self-indulgence I ever permitted myself. I'd seen so much
care